---
source_filename: Interview 37 - Female, 19, B&D (parts 1 & 2).docx
interview_number: 37
gender: Female
age: 19
borough: Barking & Dagenham
parts_hint: Part 1 & 2
---

# Transcript
INTERVIEW 37 – Female, B&D

I: umm..  Can we start by talking about what you’ve put first please.

R: mhm

I: Thank you

R: So the first one.. Okay.. so… You could be around a load of people but you just feel like you have no one… and.. Majority of the time.. That’s the case. So you can have like loads of friends around you but you still feel like you’re the only person standing and getting stared at…and all stuff like that.. Basically it… (silence)

I: and how does that make you feel?

R :gives me anxiety really but..

I: Mhm

R: umm to the point where I feel like I can’t even leave in that situation. I feel like I have to just kinda stand there and hope that someone initiates that we’re leaving or when.. You know.. Going home or something. cause I feel like if I open then it’s more of a throwback even more and people don’t look at you as socially acceptable and stuff like that.. Yeah it’s not nice.. Yeah....don’t know how to elaborate on that really umm second one..

I: Uhm, before we go on to the second one, uhh I’m gonna go-

I’m gonna.. Oh, I think I’d like to go a bit deeper into this one.. Same thing with the others. So it sounds like with the first box ; what you’re saying is you might be around lots of people so you might physically be around lots.. Around a lot of people

R: Yeah

I: but ..but you feel .. you still feel lonely

R: yeah.. you feel like you’re the only person in the room but you know there’s other faces staring at you and i think that’s where paranoia comes in.. you start feeling like if you take.. It could be anything..down to your shoelaces come undone.. And you  should really do it up but you feel like are people gonna look at me and laugh at me because of the way i'm doing it or.. You become really cautious of your every move around other people because you feel like you’re the only person they’re staring at umm comes and brings other things in with it as well like anxiety . That don’t really help i think I mean personally.. I think my anxiety stemmed from feeling lonely.. but i’ve had no one.. But there’s always been a big group of people that would ask if you’re okay and stuff like that but you just kinda refrain from it. Because you don't want to be that burden and then it comes back to .. you feel lonely again.. Because you don’t want to put anything on anybody else but there’s loads of people around but you just don’t realise it.. Yeah

I: So.. so you feel like people might be…you know staring at you or people are looking at you or you’re worried that they may judge you

R: yeah definitely. That’s the first fault .. the first fault when you’re like.. If you’re with a load of friends and You know all of these people but not that well- your.. (- unclear 1:30) become concerned by your every move and how they’re watching you cause you feel like they-  they are watching you.. Everyone. because you don’t feel like well brought into the conversation or whatever by your own doing- if that makes ssense umm - you just kinda refrain from everyone -- and become an outsider.. Because you feel like everyone is looking at you.. Yeah..

I: umm when you say that if you’ve got these friends -uhmm that you, I’m assuming you might go out with them but you don’t really know them.. Cause you mention you don’t know them.. Can you tell me about them

R; Yeah so it’s like you have new friends.. You might have met them a couple of times but each time you are with them you can’t help but be very self conscious of yourself soo.. Everything you do has to like.. Live up to them. Or if not better, because you feel like if you don’t you feel like you’re constantly being watched.. Yea.. I don’t know .. makes you feel so singled out because if you aint hitting in your head where your targets are at.. You just feel like you’re not a part of  who they are.. And you feel like you cant ever be a part of that group because you’re not hitting .. their same tar- targets if you like.. . in your head.. Yeahh it could be.. Like.. they could be just, new friends.. Or they could be friends you’ve known for a while but don’t see often.. So that with me.. people I don’t see often. I feel the most loneliest around so like if i go to work.. I don’t feel that bad.. But if im with people outside that environment.. I feel so lonely.. I don’t want to be there so if i’m in work.. I feel better.. Because there’s more of an environment.. I feel like if im ignored. Or anything like that.. I could go and turn to the next person. But, when you’re outside.. In the environment like that.. And it’s left for all of you to make that environment it’s kind of hard because you can’t just turn around and be like someone close to you um. Conversation about this or.. Because you feel like the other people are then.. Feeling like they’re singled out.. You feel like you’re not doing enough.. It’s horrible.. It’s not the(snickers) greatest

I: so it sounds like what you’re saying is. There’s always that kind of goal that you want to reach in terms of how you want to be to fit in

R: Yeah definitely.  And i-i-it is like a mental block because if you can’t get past that, you kind of so with me.. If I can't get past that.. I kind of ignore it and then like jump back and then never put myself in that same situation again.. So instead of going out with the same people I’d be like no I’m staying at home.. Or something like that because I know how I will feel around them and i know i can't ever get out of that.. So it kinda just stops you from doing that.. Yeah..and  I think that's where the loneliness just kind of gets worse.. In a way because you just know that fighting obstacles.. So I.. Yeah..

I: so sounds likes.. You might you know- feel like that with a group of friends you might not be able to express yourself or..  You might not be able to.. You might be judged at .. You might have withdrawn yourself from

R: yeah

I: from them

R: yeah definitely, I think it’s like once you know you can’t get over what your mind wants you to do.. You then start taking action like i’m gonna withdraw or .and i'm not gonna.. You start beating yourself up in a way because you’re like - well everyone else could do it and i can’t. you don’t obviously see past what you wanna see past until you’re like back at home or something and then when you’re back in that situation you still can’t get past that yeah..

I: and when you say you can’t get past that..

R: yeah It’s like a mental block so you can’t get past feeling like you’re not accepted and you’re not like socially included because when you’re there it’s - it’s the same thing like when you’re there if you can’t reach them tiny little goals in your head like.. I’ll make someone laugh..or  Make someone smile.. Or Just silly little stuff.. Once you can’t get past that..or It’s like from there you know once you don’t achieve the first one , you straight away go oh i'm not gonna achieve them and you keep just backing down and it's like i won't go and have a conversation with him because I feel like they hate me. When really.. They’re just trying to work out who you are because you haven’t met them before. Stuff like that .. hm. .it’s just its .. I think it's just generally how your mind works.. But nobody can ever .. so with me i know how my mind works  but i can't ever break out of that because I forget how my mind works in that situation until I'm out of that situation and I realise I need to change my mindset but its - it's like an ongoing thing - i think anybody who does feel lonely will- can’t really break it until someone else has broken it for them - its .. yeah it's like an ongoing cycle i think - it can just be in any way as well .. yeah..

I: How does that make you feel?

R: makes me feel horrible like I feel like I can’t do the same as my own friends so it puts your self esteem down  a bit and your self worth. Because you feel like you're not the same as other people and you do feel different and then from most people will think being different is the best because not everyones the same but then with- a person wants.. When you're in a lonely cycle.. You want to be like everybody else.. To get the same acceptance.. And with me it just makes me feel like I'm never gonna get that so then you keep putting yourself down. Your self-esteem gets ruined and it's just ongoing.. Its not.. New.. it's like being on a hamster wheel and not getting off so i .. yeah, it's not the best

I: When you said you want to be socially included and accepted

R: yeah

I: Can you tell me more about that?

R: so when I’m with friends, in your head you feel like you’re not on the same wavelength as them so you feel like you’re never gonna be socially accepted if you cant even be accepted by the people around you  so its like  with me I won’t travel out far because I feel like well if I can't be around people who umm used to seeing and I still cant feel like that like.. If I still can’t feel a part of their group and comfortable and myself.. Then how am i gonna do that elsewhere . It’s probably gonna be worse. So its like you feel like you're there but you're not a part of their social group and you're not a part of their conversation and you're not a part of their experiences because you don’t ever put yourself out there to experience some things with them because you’re concerned and you feel like they're looking at you in different ways and you can’t go in there and actually do the same thing as them so that knocks you down and you feel like you’re not a part of the social group that they've created because you feel like they're pushing you away and they dont want you in that group because they're having more fun without you and it just develops from that from anything. So It could be anything from like a walk- like bumping into each other from walking through the park or it could be going away for the weekend.  Like it could be any different things it just all works the same . does that make sense? Yeah it’s just - it does- it works all the same with- no matter what you try and do.. Because you don't feel like you're worthy enough of being there, at that moment.

I: So sounds like how people view you or reputation is important to you

R: yeah.. It is.. I think nowadays in society.. Socially, you’ve gotta be the funniest, or the prettiest or you gotta have something good to stand out from the rest.. And then I think like when you feel like you’ve got no one around you you feel like you’ve got none of them aspects, otherwise you’d have people around you and you would feel comfortable and you would feel yourself but because your mind is telling you a different thing it’s kinda like.. You know.. It's always gonna be like that… if that makes sense yeah..

I: and.. How do you feel about that ?

R: not good.. I feel like it’s gonna continue .. for the rest of my life because in a way I’m not willing to change it but i can't change it.. Does that make sense? Because when you’re in a situation you can’t change the way your mind thinks or works towards that situation umm and I feel like its always gonna be like that.. I could be 30 with children and still sitting at home on my days off tryna escape from the world you know what I mean? But it does come into more of a- you rely.. You’re comfortable and you relying on being lonely because you know when you're on your own, nothing can happen to you but then at the same time it puts you in fear because you feel like you want to be around people, you want to experience that happiness, you want to experience other things that make you I don’t know like .. feel like you're living life but once you're in that sector you can't really break from it.. It’s difficult .. really difficult and it's hard to understand within yourself how to... make yourself feel different and ways to go about it .. it's hard to cover all areas when you can’t get past the first, if that makes sense; so like you can’t cover having no friends and being on your own 24/7 and like it turns more into you just go with it because you know the outcome of the situation because when you’re with friends you don't know whether its a boyfriend or friends or close friends or family, you still look at them all the same way so you just know that it's never gonna escalate so you just become more comfortable with being lonely more than anything but it restricts you from a lot of things and makes you feel worse

I: so sounds like being alone kinda makes you feel safe in a way

R: yeah.. Yeah.. I mean it is the safest form i think. When you do feel the way you do because you know that there’s no one there to tell you what's right from wrong, there’s no one to tell you- you do like.. You're not like included or you are included.. There’s just no right or wrong .. to being on your own..  I mean with me I’m- my bedroom is my sanctuary.. Because that's when I feel the most comfiest when i’m on my own and when nobody’s there to give an opinion or i feel like they’re going to give an opinion I can just be who I am in my own time and whether that’s talking to people on the phone- i can do that on my own time- I can choose my own time to do that. I don't have to always be there and waiting to be accepted. If that makes sense and if - I think that's why a lot of people-- i mean i could be wrong but that’s probably why a lot of people choose not to break out of being on their own. Because it is the easiest and the comfiest for a person but you know .. everyone’s different I suppose .. yeah..

I: and what kind of thoughts that normally go through your head when you’re with your friends and then you feel like everyone’s watching you

R: umm..

I: or just not everyone watching you - well- what kind of - normally do you think about

R: well I mean, for example the other day, yesterday, I was with a large group of friends and we were all having a conversation and but where i felt like I couldn't - I didn’t- they were giving a big memory on like their day out that I wasn't there with them so I feel like I couldn't comment on the situation or have a laugh with that because I wasn’t there to experience it and then it makes you feel withdrawn so you - you withdraw yourself from that conversation and you stop the conversation becoming a conversation before it even is. If that makes sense. Umm and then you just constantly in your head working out different excuses and like ways to get out of being there- so the whole time I was there I was trying to figure out ways to tell them. “Oh I’ve gotta go home’  but it was like 4 o'clock in the afternoon. I didn’t have to be anywhere you know.. And it was a case of.. Oh if I walked away now and they start driving and they see me.. Going a complete opposite way or you know just taking a walk on my own, it would be yet another opinion so you just kinda sit there and feel out of place like someone’s moved the furniture around and not put it back and you sit there and you kind of keep taking it if that makes sense and then. After you just kind of - it goes for a bit- because you find a level where you're most comfortable at and it's like you are standing on the sidelines and you watch and you're most comfortable there. And nobody else seems to be bothered by that. So you just kinda sit there until someone speaks to you or sit there until someone makes a conversation with you, smiles at you, or looks at you. And then it all comes back cause you’ve now got to try and try your best to be at the same level with them on the same conversation and then it all comes back to how am i gonna get out you know- it’s like an escape room but there's no exit.. (giggles) it's not the greatest to be in - and I think it makes you feel kind of sick. And you start hating yourself cause you see how everybody else is. And you want to be a part of that- you want to be like them. But you can't

I: hmm

R: hmm

I: Thank you

R: it's alright

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box 1?

R: No..

I: Thank you umm sorry.. no I was just gonna say can we start by talking about what you’ve put in the second box

R: Yeah so.. The top circle is me, with just tiny statements so.. Nothing and not good enough and everything is a struggle and then everybody else you view as being the perfect person or being fun umm you kind of- you do- separate yourself from everyone else and you pick out the worst in yourself but the best in everyone else and it makes you feel like you don’t want to be around anyone else- because you haven’t got the same quali-qualities as them. And then you do feel like a burden or you feel like you haven't done enough or you’re- you’re just not the best basically. And you feel like you have to be the best. There's no excuses you. You should be the best. But then that goes back to box one, you just you- is-I don't know how to explain it- you just section yourself and then withdraw yourself. It’s kind of the same after effects. It’s just, you always put yourself down and you wont stop putting yourself down until you don’t feel lonely anymore. You don't feel like you’re the only person with these problems like you’re the only person who’s not good- good looking enough or not skinny enough or too skinny or you know like my roots have started coming through so i’m not the best looking- and i'm a mess. Do you know what I mean so its like you do pick at your imperfections but everybody else perfection. And you try to compete all the time and when you havent won its an immediate drawback- immediate. Umm, it's not easy - it's not easy to constantly pick at yourself cause I mean I’m 24/7 there's always something wrong. Like now I've got money problems and I feel like I'm the worst person in the world because I can't afford to live for a week, you know. But then I look at other people, and they’re going out partying, a week later after getting paid. It just makes me feel like what’s wrong with myself. And then you start beating yourself up and then you put yourself into like lone- (22.08)- lonely bubble because you don’t want anyone else to see your imperfections as well. You completely cut off the outside world. To yourself until you feel like you're ready to  be back and even then you gotta question yourself like a hundred years if you’re ready so.. It's an ongoing thing as well. It’s just constant. It’s not something you ever get out of your head. The first thing you do when you wake up in the morning is I’m not getting out of bed, I look like complete crap. Do you know what I mean? So it’s like I’m not getting out of bed I look terrible right now. Oh my gosh. If I get out of the shower, then I know i’m gonna look messy then if get out the shower, it’s the first thing I do in the morning is go through all the steps of why I look like that and oh my god I’ve got to fix that and it’s just constantly something you have to do. And it’s because nobody- i think in a way- nobody is there telling you you don’t. And you just feel you’re on your own with everything. That’s the only thing you can do. You can pick at yourself because nobody- you’re not letting anybody give you a chance to do it but then at the same time, people are in your head so it’s like an appearance for everybody else but you’re downgrading- that helps the appearance. I don't know how to explain it. It’s like an everyday morning cycle i think. I think that’s the case for quite a lot of people. I hope. (laughs) (23:45) I don’t hope but there you go. You straight away think of somebody else and wonder if they’re the same as you. Yeah.

I: and how does that make you feel?

R: not good enough like everything surrounding that box nothing, not good enough, and everything’s a struggle. That is your pretty much everyday feeling and if you don’t achieve something. You’re nothing, if you don't achieve something, you’re not good enough. And if you don’t achieve something, yeah it’s another struggle that you gotta deal with. Yeah

I: so it sounds like.. You have - you perceive yourself in some ways and you sort of see how everyone else is doing something different and then you might perceive yourself as someone who’s nothing, who’s not good enough, who has not achieved much and then you see other people, for example, how they progress, how they achieve things in life

R: Yeah. and I mean even the smallest thing. So you could get a new job.and so my experience was, I got a new job but then I see somebody else get a better job and it’s still made me feel like I wasn’t good enough and I felt like I couldn’t tell people about my job because I felt like it still wasn’t good enough because people have different opinions. And it’s a case of you want to be- you aspire to be like everybody else but everybody else is different. But in your eyes they’re all the same.they’re all progressing perfectly. They’re doing what they should be doing in life. You know. Like going to school, going to college, going to university. Then getting married and getting a car and just simple life stuff but you feel like cause youre not doing those things, you’re not worthy in life. And you're not worthy of friends and you’re not worthy of anybody else. And you’re in this little box because you put yourself there. Because you just picked away at yourself for so long to the point you don't feel like it’s okay to be around other people. You don’t feel like it’s okay to have friends because you feel like you’re supposed to be without them because you feel like if you get friends you’re not worthy of them because they're so much higher than you and then it puts you back in a lonely state because you don’t want to be around anyone. And like i said being on your own becomes the safest thing ever. And that’s all you become used to. And just- I think it does make you feel so excluded and it makes you feel like-I mean occasionally, sometimes, you do feel like you have no purpose and you feel like well If I can’t be like everybody else and I can’t succeed and I can’t grow and I can’t deal with everything then what’s the point of me being here so then you do start to feel like - out of place and then you start thinking of ways of - you shouldn’t be dealing with it and then it puts you in a complete depression and you’ve got to somehow deal with that but then it becomes another struggle so then you go back to - oh I’m nothing, I’m not good enough because it is a struggle and that is like a constant cycle. As soon as you realise it’s not a struggle you become nothing and not good enough but also to experience a struggle, you’ve gotta realise that you’re not good enough and you’re nothing because you can’t fix that struggle. If that makes sense. So it’s just all connected and there’s just no way to break the (27.38) - like the wires. It’s just a complete connection and as soon as you just un-snip one. The other still needs to be un-snipped so it’s not even a case of snipping one and they all fall apart. Yeah

I: and how does that make you feel?

R: it’s- I don't know- it’s - over time I kinda got used to it. If that makes sense. It’s like “ugh, here we go again”. But at the beginning it was kinda like I don’t want to have to do this. Like I’m - you - you just beat yourself up. You just mentally beat yourself up, you make yourself feel like you’ve caused it all. And then you just go back to not being good enough and it’s just - you sit there and you just- I'm not good enough, I’m not good enough, I’m not good enough. Umm. and it just continues- this - you know- the feeling's pretty mutual. Like all around with pretty much everything you do. Whether that’s being around people or being, you know, not around people

Another person: (knocks) Sorry do you want a cup of tea or anything?

I: No, I’m good. Thank you very much

R: but yeah.. It’s not the greatest I think. Especially for a young person, it’s not the greatest because you’re trying to fit in with society anyway and then having to deal with stuff like that, it creates so many different doors for like mental problems- like mental health problems. Like my depression has stemmed from being lonely. My anxiety stemmed from being lonely but there’s so many different things I’ve encountered because of one tiny thing but it does have a big impact on your mindset. But it will always be a negative feeling. No matter whether you achieve something. You’re still not good enough, so it’s like an ongoing cycle because you have no one there. You feel like you’ve got no one around you to be praising you. And even if they do praise you. You feel like it’s a dig, you don’t feel like it’s an actual praise, or you feel like it’s sarcasm in a way. And it’s like even my grandparents, they’ll tell me how well I’ve done and in the back of my head I feel like it’s just them saying well you’ve done good but you could have done better, you know. But it’s just- it’s just how your mind works and I think like- if I didn't have half the problems that I did, it would be easier for me to deal with. Being lonely. But at the same time probably not. I should have more time to focus on being lonely than so many separate issues. yeah (laughs) it’s not the best.

I: and when you say that everything’s a struggle, can you tell me more about that

R: It could literally just be anything. It could be getting up in the morning, like i said, straight away you penalise yourself because you don’t look like the models on TV when they wake up but we all know that they haven’t been asleep you know so it’s like everything becomes a struggle because- it’s like I dont know so- just doing your hair in the morning is a struggle because you don’t want to do it but  you have to do it because that’s what’s expected. And like money- so with me- money is a big struggle but it doesn’t have to be but because I’m trying to be accepted, I end up spending money on being accepted. If that makes sense. Like when we go out it’s like “noo I’ll pay for it” because I want someone to like me. Because I want someone to accept me because maybe I bought them like a 5 pound burger or a 20p chocolate you know. Umm. it’s literally anything. Everything is a struggle and then as soon as you feel like you’ve done right in one corner, you’ve done wrong in the other so it’s like going to school might be great but then your grades, you get back you know. It’s not good enough, so then you go back to the first thing, of going to school. And you’re like “oh is it even worth it”. If- and - that’s how I ended up losing so much time out of school because you just go back and you feel like well I’m not getting the grades I'm supposed to get and I haven’t gotten any friends anyway so I shouldn’t be there. So you remove yourself from that sector. And then that becomes a struggle because you’ve removed yourself from the sector and every little thing you do in life, it can be walking down the stairs in the morning, it can be making a drink, anything. It’s all a struggle because you can’t see it in any other way. And it’s hard to deal with. It’s hard to deal with. It is ridiculous. Even going into a shop and getting a drink, you know. You struggle because you feel like the people behind you that you don’t even know might be looking at you and judging the drink you just picked up. It’s just an onward cycle. It’s like everyday life, things, yeah. It’s just everyday life things just turn into a struggle. Every tiny things that nobody thinks of becomes something that you think of when you’re so lonely because you haven’t got anything else removing it from your mind. It’s just every tiny thing, you focus so much more on because you can’t focus elsewhere. Yeah.

I: How does that make you feel? How does it all make you feel?

R: Distraught. Like it beats you. You don’t even beat yourself up at this point. It beats you. Because there’s nothing you can do about it. It’s just something you’ve gotta deal with and you’ve just gotta carry on going through life. Hoping that things get better, you know. And that’s the only positive thing you do have. In hopes that it’ll be alright, it’ll be fine. But deep down you know it’s not. It’s not gonna be alright and stuff like- it just- it does- it destroys you in a way. It stops you from doing simple day things because you know there’s gonna be something you’re gonna stress about. It is horrible.

I: Umm, just going back to what you said earlier. You said that you umm you said something about competing

R: Yeah. You feel like you have to compete with everyone so when you go back you feel like if someone has made someone laugh. You feel like you have to top that. Otherwise, you’re not good enough, you know. It’s like my house like I’d like to think I’ve got a really nice house but then if I invite someone over or (35:10) - it’s like it becomes like oh my gosh, what if their house is better than mine? Now they can’t come over. I mean there’s a lot of reasons why I don’t have people over here because I feel like, they’ gonna step foot into my house, they’re gonna think it’s like disgraceful or something because their house is better. It’s like a self confidence issue, within trying to feel accepted, it’s just- I think so many things are wrapped into one. It’s- yeah- it’s not the best feeling in the world and I think when you do realise a lot of things like just the tiniest thing, like that you are trying to compete with making someone smile or you’re trying to compete with someone making them laugh or it’s like I constantly try to compete with my sister. She’s 13, and I try to compete with how happy she makes my family feel, you know. There was a period of time when I moved out for a year and I was living on my own and I was still trying to compete but I was an independent person. It’s just that I think it don’t matter- it don’t matter on the person and it doesn't matter on the situation. As long as you can top whatever is going on, you feel like a better person. You feel like now you can be accepted, you know. But until you’ve actually done that, you ain't going forward; and that’s what blocks a lot of things with like breaking out of that lonely stage or period, you know. You don’t want to break out of that because- I don’t know how to explain it. You don’t want to break out of the lonely period because you’re scared of what’s gonna come but that’s why you stay there but you try to break out through competition but then it throws you back if you don’t win, you know. And then like I said it’s like a normal cycle, you go back to like, well, I’m gonna have to compete elsewhere, you know. So then I can top that person or whoever. So that I can feel like I’m running in the league now, rather than them. So I feel like- once you feel like you’re at the top, no matter what anybody says to you, they- you know- you just feel like well- I’m achieving high in this area so if anybody ever come to me with any negative saying they have about me, I’ve got this one area that I can strongly rely on. But to everybody else, they don’t care, you know, they don’t care but you do. And then you have to try and make people aware as to why you care so much. Without obviously flipping the jar lid. You just open it, have a look in, put it back on. But you’ll just- it’ll just continue. Yeah, it just continues. I mean it is just a self-esteem problem after that.

(Phone rings)

I: Thank you. And How does that make you feel, seeing other people- I dont know if I’ve asked you this question or not but how does it make you feel when you see other people, you know, achieving and being perfect and then you feel like you don’t have anything?

R: It’s a strong line of jealousy because I think you automatically begin to hate that person. I mean hate is a very strong word. I would say dislike. You start to point out their flaw and match them to yours. Um, but at that point you don’t want to be socially accepted by them, you know. You already candid them as nothing. Which is bad but because you can’t match them, it’s easier to put them as the same grid as you rather than accept that they’re better than you. So you just automatically well, don’t care, don’t like them anyway. And then you start like- they could be the prettiest person in the world and then you’d turn around and say something like yeah but your eyelashes are like disgraceful, you know. It’s- you point out the smallest, stupid thing and yeah, it is difficult. Because you just point out small little things that would stop it. Normally people would leave it at that but people when you’ve become so lonely you become bitter about many things because you can’t achieve stuff and you can’t match their achievements or like their achievement or whatever they’re doing. You can’t match that. So it becomes anger and jealousy, 100%.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box 2?

R: No I just feel like, there are big struggles that nobody thinks about, you know. There are little things that nobody sees. That does help a person, when you do see it. Yeah

I: What do you mean when you say these little things can-

R: So like, if you don’t experience loneliness, but these things have been highlighted to you. I think it’s easier to understand a person who’s going through it and it’s easier - not saying it’s easy but it is easier to identify as well when you know these things. When you know how a person feels constantly, it kind of- it’s an eye opener to those who don’t experience it. Makes you realise that not everybody has the same mentality, not everybody thinks that life’s great, you know. And thinks that they’re -like- a well working 6 pound an hour, might not be enough but it’s great, you know, at least I’m paying for stuff. It’s like a person who’s lonely always expects the worst as well. And I think once somebody who’s not lonely experience like no- notice those things. It’s like, it’s easier for the person who is lonely to latch on to a person who understands. So it’s just easier to break out of it, in a way, because nobody understands, you can’t break it out, you know, because not many people can notice the small things. So.. yeah.

I: Hmm

R: that’s it really.

I: Sounds like what you’re saying is that it would be good for those who aren’t lonely, to experience what lonely people go through?

R: No, not experience but they haven’t like- they’d- so where I say like people who are lonely put a lot of pressure on themselves and they do, think they’re not good enough and they think they’re not worthy. For a person who isn’t lonely to notice that like to hear or even see it, it’s easier for them to- a lonely person- to latch on to that person because they’re aware of these things going on, whereas a lonely person thinks a person outside doesn’t understand and will never understand, you know. And then it becomes an independent issue to deal with because nobody else understands. Hypothetically, but when somebody is made aware of these things but not maybe to experience it but just to see or have it explained to them. It does make it easier, in a way. Both for the lonely person and the person who isn’t lonely. It is easier to highlight, to avoid certain situations which may make a person feel uncomfortable but then at the same time, it’s easier for a lonely person to get attached, to break out of that lonely section. It’s like a breakaway. It’s like when you go on holiday and then you come back and then it’s always reality, you know. But with a person who understands, it’s kind of like a holiday but permanently with that one person. Yeah.

I: so you feel like having someone like that would make a difference?

R: Yeah big time, it does, I mean my partner gets me through a lot lately. Um we’ve only been together a month but he’s done a lot because he understands so it’s like, that one person, you can be yourself around because they know that any, anything that might happen in the middle of it all, they understand. So it’s like someone’s sanity, it’s like my room’s my sanity, like it’s like a sanctuary for feeling calm. It’s like being in my bedroom - like that but being with him is like that, because he gets it you know, whereas no one in my room gets it except for me (laugh) so yeah, it’s one of’em things

I: hmm

R: I think.. It’d be easier

I: hmm thank you. Is there anything else you want to say about these two?

R: nope

I: Can we move onto box 3 and start talking about what you’ve put there please?

R: so box 3 it’s - you avoid irritation. So I’ve put 3 different bubbles with (45:41) but only one that I’m aiming to go which is- said bedroom so I like I said my bedroom is my sanctuary so automatically, I ignore all these other factors and then

I: Factors, you mean the parties, I’m saying it like that because I’m recording it..

R: Parties , yeah, and- I ignore all the factors like parties and events- just events really. So anywhere we have to be more than, you know, a few people who I’m comfortable with. I avoid all of them factors and go straight to my bedroom because it’s easier for me. I avoid going out to places with people because it’s easier for me to sit in my room and be content with my own company. Umm, I mean it could be something I’ve always wanted to do. So like when I used to go out partying, it’d be like- oh I really want to go to this person's house. Let’s go. And you’d enjoy yourself so much. But then now that I've gotten myself into this depression and loneliness, it’s like straight away I think of- when I start my day right- so I’m not gonna go out until like mid-day because I’ve got nothing to do. I choose not to do anything and it’s easier for me to stay in bed rather than being pressured with - are you coming, are you coming, you know. So I’ll stay in bed and then I’ll know that either I have work, and if I’m working then - I mean I do 16 hours just so I can stay out and actually do something because work is the only place I’m willing to go other than being at home. And at that point you know when your shift is coming to the end and you know that you’re going straight back to your bedroom and you just can’t wait. Whereas you know if, if my partner said to me like, all of our friends are going out, you know, for a drink, do you want to come? I’d be like no, because I don’t know who’s gonna be there. I want exact names, I want exact times, you know, and i want - if I could, I want a personality book, you know. But it’s easier to just go- no you know what I’m gonna go home because then you don’t have to explain like uh - oh I don’t know who these people are and all stuff like that. But yeah you just avoid any open invitation to anything, I think, but that’s just cause you feel like you’re not good enough. And you do feel like being on your own is the easiest option and it’s just one last stress you don’t have to worry about. Yeah.. it’s pretty much all for that one.

I: How does that make you feel?

R: Uhm, if I’m honest, half of it makes me feel okay because I feel like do you know what, I might be missing out but at least I’m comfortable, at least I’m happy. Uhm, but then another part of me does sit there and say like… do you know I wish that was me and then you start getting really upset because you do want to be a part of that, you do want to experience the same things that all of your other friends are experiencing and it’s just- it - it depends on the mood I think. If you feel really upset or you do feel down that day, straight away you’re more likely to feel like it’s the best thing to do. Stay at home, you know. It- it is the best feeling. But then when you’re in a good mood and you see other people being happy without you, you’re more likely to feel angry in a way like- oh I kinda wanna be like them - and you can either turn it and make it jealousy, it’s like why- why is everyone having fun without me, you know. But it could work either ways, it could be jealousy, it could be happiness of feeling okay in your room, you know, you feel happy. But it could also feel like another situation where you just feel like, I really want to be there. And I am missing out, and I am really lonely but it’s - I think with stuff like it’s not too big of an impact unless you allow it to be. It’s like I see my room as a positive thing, whereas many people might see a place like that as a really negative thing but you know, it’s just one of them things, yeah.

(silence)

I: Uhm, so, it sounds like what you're saying is, you go to your bedroom because you feel like it’s a safe space

R: Yeah

I: Safe place for you, umm but at the same time, you feel like you might be missing out or why can’t you be like everybody else, like going out, enjoying themselves and things like that

R: Yeah, It’s like you want your cake and eat it (51:15) , you want to be at home and you want to be at the party but you can’t have both so you just stay at home. It’s easier. You save money, you know, you can be yourself. I mean, I could walk around in the nicest dress in my room, If I want, or I could walk around in my pyjamas. Uhm, like I can do my makeup nice, if I want to feel like a someone, you know, or I could just bum around like a slob if I just want to feel like a no one. There’s no right or wrong answer to what you do. There’s nothing to say that you’re doing life wrong when you are on your own. There’s no one there to say that’s wrong or that’s right so you kind of stick to a place you feel like- no one- like you don’t have to answer to anyone and it does become a bit of a burden because you know you’re always gonna go back there. And that is always your option. Whereas in a way like you should be thinking of it as - oh if i really have to, then I'll stay at home you know. But straight away I think - oh if I really have to, then I have to go out but I really don’t want to. It does become a safe place.

I: Hmm

R: Yeah

I: Is there anything else you want to say about that box?

R: uh no, it’s just pretty straight forward really. That one is not a big- personally for myself- I don’t think it’s a big impact on me anymore. Uhm, (laughs) So I don't know how to elaborate.

I: That’s great. Uhm, can we start talking about the final box please?

R: So final box is just making excuses so I’ve put like a message image, so like- want to come over- no sorry I can’t- why- I’m very busy. But the reality is you’re in bed. You don’t want to say- oh no I don’t want to because I don’t want to. Because you’re scared of their opinion so you find any opportunity to find an excuse. When you’re so lonely to the point where you feel like you’re not getting out, you try to adapt to the life that you’re creating for yourself. So it’s like, with me, I know for a fact, I accommodate my loneliness now, like I’ll push people away deliberately because I’m so comfortable being lonely now. Uhm, and it’s like if my friends say we’re going out this weekend, do you want to come? Shoot them down I’m like oh no sorry I’m working and reality side of it is, I don’t even know if I’m working but I’m always gonna say that I’m working because it’s the best excuse I can give, you know. Because if I had to live up to that excuse I could, I could go into work and I could ask for an extra shift. That could be my excuse because I could make it a reality. Uhm, and it’s like that with anyone, even my family, it’s like tonight they said do you want dinner and straight away I said no, I’m going out. But I know I'm not going out, out. But I’m going to my partners house where it’d be exactly the same as how I feel but more comfortable because I’m out of the house but I'm comfortable. Uhm, so it’s like straight away you find reasons just to make excuses to not be there. It’s like I don’t ever eat dinner with my family because I don’t like sitting around the table as a unit because I’m worried that things are gonna spark up to do with my life. So like they’re gonna start talking about my money situation or like they’re gonna speak about, idk, like going out at 11 o’clock at night to go over ASDA or something stupid, you get what I mean? So it’s like you’re worried constantly whether there’s gonna be an opinion about to arise and I know it’s easier to not go and have dinner so I could avoid any opportunity at that, you know. I am barely in the house because I’m always at work because I do avoid stuff like that but I know for a fact that my family are probably gonna say how’s your day been, you know, the usual conversation. When you’re in that situation, all of these things are gonna happen so it’s like I automatically think about having dinner and getting anxiety. So i’m like I don’t want to have to answer any of the questions. I don't wanna have to answer any questions at all. I just want to sit there, eat, and go. But it don’t work like that. And everyone knows for a fact that you could get on a bus, and someone sits next you, and starts talking to you and I don’t want that to happen. But you’ve just gotta let that happen because if you don’t, then you're rude, you know. If you just turn around and say- oh don’t speak to me, it’s- and then that’s another opinion. So it’s like you do anything to make excuses to avoid things that you know is gonna happen. Like I just hate conversation because I’m so used to being on my own so when I’m having a conversation, it puts me out of place and makes me feel awkward. So I avoid any type of conversation like even at work I’d have a conversation here and there but if i’ve been brought into the conversation. I don’t bring up conversation, if that makes sense. I avoid bringing up a conversation or entering a conversation halfway. It has to be somebody’s come to me with a conversation and dragged me into it. Cause if i’m honest, it’s gotten to a point now where I am - i’m kind of happy living on my own. And I would be happy doing everything by myself because I’ve kinda gotten used to that by now, you know. I’ve got used to everything. I’ve got used to shopping by myself, going out by myself, going to work by myself, like every day life things, I could do myself comfortably. Whereas if I do with others I feel like I’m not doing something right and I feel like someone’s looking at like- that other person’s looking at me going- what the hell- so like it’s just easier to do it myself. I don’t like going shopping on my own- with other people- I’d rather go on my own because what I buy, I have the opinion, you know. And it just comes down to stupid things like going self-checkout because you don’t want anybody else knowing what you’re buying to have an opinion but it’s - idk - it’s strange, it’s strange. Because when you’ve become so adapt to something, you don’t see the negative sides of it anymore. Like in the past I’ve always felt so beaten up, and myself worth’s crushed, and my self-esteem’s not great. But I think when you’ve become so comfortable with -comfortable with lying in a way, you know at that point, that’s it like if i’m willing to make an excuse to go out then I know for a fact that it ain’t gonna get better than this. You just grow with what you got and then you just become comfortable. And- but I know for a fact that in a few months time, I'll reach a point where I’m not happy because everyone has (59:04), you know. I know for a fact that it will get- a few months down and i’ll reach a period where I won’t be able to cope with the fact that I’m so lonely. And then I'll just go back into this - oh i’m going into my room and I'm not going out to see anyone, you know, in a proper like -sit on them things that i say like- sit on the fact that i’m not going out or I’m not going out partying and then it puts me down and then creates a depression even worse. But when you learn to cope with it, I think it’s kind of temperamental. So it’ll come at any point and leave at any point, you know, and then you’ll feel alright for a few more months and then it hits you again but I think that’s when it plays on your mental health worse because like i said there are many things that I didn’t used to have. But now I do, I mean like for my anxiety and depression… I relied on tablets, because ... like with that i've learnt how  to cope with it but not the way it should be coped with, so, yeah, I think that's about it.

I: When you said you don't...you knew how to cope with it but now you don't, can you tell me more about that.

R: so it’s like my anxiety and depression, i learnt to cope with it my way. Not the right way, so with me i used to put things into the back of my head until I was ready to explode and that's how I cope with it now, i just keep pushing it back, pushing it back, till i cant push it back anymore and then i reach a month where i'll just...no one’s really here for me, speak to me see me, whatever. Be lucky if you catch me at work type of thing because ill be sitting there trying to...it's like leaving paperwork to the last minute and having to sit down and get it all done within an hour.. And it don't work like anybody could tell you it wouldn't work but thats why I'm making use of coping whereas now I'm having to rely on tablets to… help me cope with it because my way wasn't good enough. And that's the only way i know you know. So it's the same with loneliness.. I'm so used to all the excuses and all the feelings… and all the stuff like that You push it back so far and you just deal with it the way you know how to so with me its been on my own. But I push everything else to the back of my head.. That i know after a few months I'll release it at some point. So i know within a few months I'll probably have a break down. I’ll probably sit there and be in a really bad depression but I know once that period’s past it’s not coming back for a while. You know so the next .. The best way i cope with it. But I know after a few like a while, its gonna reach a point where i am gonna need some … probably special help you know but until that point i'm not prepared for that. So it just kinda stays but that's because I’m- like i said. It's so used to you our lies that its not lies anymore, its reality. And You don't… i don't know how to explain it.. So you don't really

Look at it as an issue, you look at it as a temperamental problem. So just when that period of me breaking down, that is when i realise that i've got a problem with being lonely and depressed and my anxiety. But only at that point do i realise that. Because the way I cope with it makes me realise that..makes me feel that I'm normal…. mmmm

I: and how does that make you feel?

R: In a way, I feel like I've achieved something, feel like I can do it my way, like I've created this way of dealing with it and it works. And it makes you feel so so happy. Because you're like something in my life has finally worked. But then at the same time. You realise from time to time, when you do have your down days, you realise everything that you're doing is wrong, you shouldn't be doing it like that and you should be doing it in a professional way. You should be helped a certain way. But you just didn't so its like .. it makes me feel. I wouldn't say that I hate myself, but it’s like I hate the things that I'm doing to myself. And it makes me feel really sad, and emotional, and occasionally, I cry. It does just make you feel really depressed or if not worse. Because on them down days, you really just don't want to be thinking of stuff like that and that's just what makes it 10 times worse. On a good day you could be fine. Like i mean i can sit here now because it’s quite a good day for me. I can sit here now and say like I'm fine because I'm coping with everything well . nothing wrong has happened to trigger me, you know what I mean- like when I say trigger- i mean like nobody gave me an opinion or been around me for too long to express that they're gonna give me an opinion and from that point I feel fine like- I feel like i've conquered the world you know . but i know on a down day this will be a complete -opposite way round. I'll probably still be in my bed and my phone will probably still be off, you know. You can't really say how it makes you feel unless you're in a certain mind frame to feel like that

(disturbance)

I : We can go sit outside…. If it's not gonna be too windy. We can sit on the floor, I don't mind.

R: uhm, Yeah that's pretty much to that one if I'm honest. Just it is what it is .it depends on the day for the mood and then if it ain't the right day it's kind of like you just gotta deal with it either way. It just stops you from doing anything. It doesn't allow you to do anything…. If that makes sense. Yea..

I : and when you said you've found a way to cope with what you're going through and it works. I'm just trying to reflect back what you said.. Yea so when you said you've found a way that works, do you mean like the medications you need?

R: No like i mean… with me I'm very quick to ignore it and like i said it only arises when everything’s been built up for too long and it could take someone to swear at you to completely break down and you know everything will come out but to that point i don't feel like, I don't feel like there is an issue until it happens because i can put it at the back of my head and get on with my day. Uhm, in given situation. Like if i were to be out with friends and stuff like that, i would be the same- like i’d still feel the same type of way towards that. I'll still feel like i shouldn't be there. That's why my life has pretty much just been me, so with the recent partner, it's just like I've had to try and allow for him to come into this section that I only allow for myself. But I still carry on with the I'm not going out  anywhere, i'm just gonna go to work. But Thats what I'm contempt with like I'm contempt with only being by myself. And that's how I deal with it. And then i reach a wall where it all comes flooding out. I'm like i know that ain't gonna last long. So i get over it quite quick and i get to the same thing you know.coming home  Going to work, coming home, Type of routine. Yeah it’s just the same routine really. I cope with it better.

I: and what did you write here?

R: that's the reality of being in bed.. I don't want him to leave. That just goes back to the excuses. Its like you will make excuses for literally anything i think. Yeah, that’s pretty much it.

I: is there anything else you want to say?

R: uhm

I: okay thank you very much. Now we move on to the second stage of the study. So I’m gonna ask you to elaborate on what you've put in the little boxes. I'm just wondering if the wind is affecting the recording.

(microphone problem).

PART 2

I: okay, this is part 2 now. Can we start by talking about what you put in box 1 please?

R: so for box 1 i put the place I feel most socially connected. It’s like i said in my home. Like in my bedroom using my phone. And with people I'm comfortable with. It could be anywhere but as long as i can be comfortable so its like my partner that I'm comfortable with and in work, uhm, being in bed with my phone it's like I can be myself and still be accepted. And i can also switch off that level of communication. So if i feel like i'm too far into a situation where I can't get out and i feel like i just can't do it. I can just log off, you know. When you're with people you cannot just walk away. It doesn't work like that. Uhm, so i know when i'm at home or in my bed , its like I'm using my phone and its fine, like I'm in my comfort zone and nobody can break that because nobody’s like physically there with me. Umm.. when I'm with people i'm comfortable with i can just be around them and feel my like myself you know. To the point where it’s like i do feel that I have people around me but at the same time I am judging myself. Because there's people around me. Because I'm so comfortable with them that I don't look at them as one person who's gonna give me an opinion. And make me feel  less valued. It's like we could be at the park, we could be at a restaurant. Anywhere. And I don't feel that bad because I'm with people who I'm comfortable with so the world don't seem so frightening- like because you know there’s people who actually like you, who if -worst case scenario- that somebody didn't, that some people there do but it takes a lot to get comfortable with a person like that. A lot like- like my own small friendship group at the moment, uhm, Is my partner and my partner’s friends. And I can be around them. I can happily sit there and be okay with them, uhm, but there is a slight difference. We could be- if it's just us, Its fine, but if we’re out somewhere, I don't feel that comfortable. Uhm, cause then it comes down to what if the people outside start looking at me, looking at these like, looking at me with these, having an opinion so it becomes automatically like oh there's another way of getting an opinion. Uhm, at work, I think work must be the

I: just before we move onto work, i was just gonna ask you if I may, you said it's not as frightening with these people. Can you tell me more about what you mean by frightening

R: so when- like when I'm on my own I feel like everyone’s staring at me and its like...I'm the main character in this book. And everyone’s waiting for the next sentence. Umm. when I'm with other people it's like i don't have to give answers for everything. They can talk on my behalf. So i know i can just turn to someone and be like oh well you might as well answer that. Instead of me having to answer for it. Umm..it feels frightening because you just feel like this little fish in a big pond. And you feel like the only little fish in this big pond. And you feel like you can't .. you can't just run away and go home, you know. You can't just disappear. It doesn't work like that. I mean there’s been occasions where i just sit on a toilet just because i feel like i need some time out you know. But you can't just disappear and go home. You cant click your fingers and be in your room. So it's something that does frighten you but. You have to kind of just hope for the best. But with other people its like you know what i don't have to give an answer. You know what I don't have to speak. I don't even have to look at anybody else if I don't want to. Because I'm with other people. They're like a shield. Its like your protective armour, and it's like you don't have to say speak or look. They can do it all for you. Ummm in your head anyway. But i mean when other people do speak to you. That's when you feel most happiest because when somebody new comes to speak to you. It gives you a bit of anxiety but you feel that they've come to you not them. So it makes you feel better. But when shoes on the other foot it kinda like you're a standing piece of object. And you don't know what to do with yourself. Ummm. but it does make it easier when you're with people you're comfortable with. Cause I think it's, yeah it is, they are like your little soldiers. That's what it feels like. When you're on your own, you feel like a king without you know no soldiers. It's not the best…. Yea its not great. It's like, it's even the same for work cause I speak to everyone there and everyone speaks to me. And in a way we have to anyway because of work related topics. I feel the most achieved at work. And I feel my best at work. And there's probably why I haven't left there in like 3 years. Because I speak to everyone i get along with everyone. As far as I'm aware, everyone gets along with me and because people do rely on me for a lot. It does make me feel better in myself because i feel like... not in a horrible way...but i feel like if i wasn't there doing that nobody else-  like i'm the one who's carrying this. I'm carrying all of us right now. And it makes me feel a lot better like i've got a responsibility where people appreciate you for it. And they give you a sense of accomplishment. Its like every time i go in there i know that i'll feel okay. I've got people who are willing to be behind me all the way and we have conversations and when i've done … something good, i get a praise on it you know. It’s 24/7 like its just corresponding to everything that you need. With being so lonely, it just makes you feel ...it makes everything hell just go away. Because you're not home that's an achievement in itself. You know you got people around you. Who are willing to put the effort in the way you want them to. And it's just the best feeling i think. And that's the place I feel most socially connected. I can talk for hours with people at work. When i'm at home i choose not to. So… there is the best.

I: and when u said home in bed using your phone, and you said using your phone. Can you tell me more about that.

R: yeah, so just communicating with people like on snapchat, facebook or instagram like anything, any social networking. I can decide how long I want to speak with people. I'm not in face to face- like radiance for you to give me an opinion or see me give you an opinion. Like physically. With your eyes or anything because there's a lot of people you see straight away that can give you impressions that make you feel like oh you know… are we not… like hey or have i done something wrong like all they might do is squint cos the sun’s out you know. But when you're home you don't have to see all of that. It stops you from seeing all of that. And it's like you could choose how long you want to speak to these people. Choose how long you want to exist in the social world. If that makes sense but at the same time, while socialising i can also be like in my pyjamas, I could go about my day on how i want it to be. But i didn't. A bit of social life. To it when i feel like i want to. So its better-it is better that way i think. It does make me feel like socially connected i suppose. Because I can just chose, when i want to do it. There's no one telling me that you have to do that or not to do that.

I: it sounds like you like that control aspect

R: yeah, I like knowing that nobody can tell me from right from wrong. I feel like when im at home it's so nice to know that I can control my life style and my lifestyle is not controlling me. Whereas when i'm out i feel like my lifestyle is controlling me because of how im going about my day with other people. When-it’s just-it’s all a bit- it’s all just long-it’s horrible and its draining. But when you're on your own and when you just do it. It's like having a side job. It makes you feel a bit better cause you know that you don't always have to go in. but you can if you want to. So- yeah it’s nice-i like having control over my life i think.

I: sorry I think I disrupted you when you were pointing to some other points.

R: Uhm, So like, no i've gone over all of them really. They're like the points coming off of them.

I: so for home in bed, using your phone because you feel safe and you can-

R: Yeah, I can use my level. I can choose the level of sociability. It’s - like I said I can range between whether I want to be talking to people for hours or not at all. Uhm, being comfortable with people because I could still be myself and I still feel accepted. And that just- it makes you have a different view in society. It makes you a different view on being- like socialising with others cause like I said it feels like you’ve got people behind you, ready to fight your battles. But minus the fighting. It’s like they’re there, even if it goes wrong. But they’re also there to catch you if you fall.. which is nice. Uhm, and like I said with work, it’s just that I get on with everyone and people rely on me quite a lot. It gives me a sense of achievement. And I don’t know. It just- It covers every area that I feel like I’m not doing my best in, like achieving goals, making friends, being happy in general. Uhm, working to the best of my ability, like reaching my full potential and that’s what I can do there so yeah.

I: Is there anything else that you want to say about box 1?

R: No

I: Thank you. Can you talk about box 2 please?

R: Yeah so box 2, the person who most feel lonely, so I’ve wrote three points. The biggest one is with a group of people. So being in a big group of friends.

I: Sorry, is it - oh- is that number one?

R: Yeah, so the biggest point out of all of these is .. being with a group of friends. Uhm, it gives me anxiety really bad and I feel like it shouldn’t be there. So, when I am in a situation like that, the first thing that I think about is I wanna go home. And it sometimes gets to a point where I really get emotional, where I feel like I’ve got no option but to go home, or other people are gonna have a bigger opinion. That leads them to meeting new people, because I feel like when people- when new people are surrounded by me I feel like the first- the last thing they want to do is be my friend. And it’s more of

I: I’m sorry, could you say that again please?

R: So it’s like being with new people, the last thing I think of is the fact that they want to be my friend. So it’s like when there’s new people around, it goes back to like, you just want to, either compete or achieve. So you either want to achieve to a level to what they’re doing or better. So that’s when competition comes in and you want to make them laugh, you wanna make them smile, or - the same stuff they do to other people. You just don’t know how. Uhm, but when you do get on that level with someone and they go out of their way to be friends with you. It’s- I think for me, it’s worse because it’s nice to know somebody wants to be friends but then also it flips, reverses it into, because there’s loads of people here, is it more of a sympathy thing? And I feel like with new people, it might be sympathy, it might feel like- I feel like - they look at me and they realise that I’m the odd one out so they try to include me but I don’t want to be included for the sympathy card, you know. I want to be included because you want to be my friend not because you feel like you have to. Paranoia comes into it and then it’s just - it’s a situation I hate to be in. I always avoid all of them situations. That’s the first thing I do cause I don’t like being around new people, let alone being in a big group, or anything like that because i feel like I’m not supposed to be there at all. I don’t know how to explain it. It’s just - it’s uhm, a heart pounding feeling. You don’t want to - you just don’t want to be there. You really don’t want to be there because of so many factors like they’re new, you don’t know what their personality is like, you don’t know how they’re gonna react, like, there’s so many things to it. Uhm, I think that might be the biggest thing, with a lot of people. Uhm, and being at home, other then not being in my room, is not one that I enjoy either. Uhm, I feel like everyone's got a bad opinion of me, or that I’m not doing enough in life or i’m not making anyone else proud of me, or I'm not making anyone else feel like they can show me off, if that makes sense so like I mean I didn’t do the best in school, uhm, I come out with all the things I needed but not the things I wanted, uhm, so I come out with passes but it wasn't good enough for- like my family. And I know when -so I kind of hid my GCSE grades for a very very long time because I was worried about bad opinion like not being good enough because, you know, I didn’t get an A* in everything or uhm, and then it’s like money situations, uhm, like being around because I don’t want them to tell me, I'm doing that wrong, Uhm, everything someone tells me I'm doing something wrong, I just kind of - you take it a lot more literal and you take it a lot more on board because you try to impress those close to you and you try and gain their - like- friendship from family but it’s hard to explain because you don’t want to be friends with your family but you just - you want to feel accepted to the point where you feel like.. Do you know what.. I can tell you stuff and like you just want to feel normal around people and I don’t know how to express normal as being normal but you can’t do that. And it’s even the same with family like - you just- how you are with friends and stuff it’s exactly the same with family, if not worse. Because you feel like you’re around these people 24/7 and you can’t get rid of these people. And they’re always gonna have an opinion and they’re always gonna have something to say based on what you do in your life and I don’t like that. I don’t like - I don’t mind being told what’s- what I’m doing wrong but not to the extent that it is wrong and you need to be doing something different. Like, I don’t like - I think a lot of my problem is I don’t like being told a lot of things. Uhm, I very much like learning from myself, or if someone else tells me, I feel like it’s a dig. And that throws me back and it makes me feel lonely cause I feel like I’m in this on my own and then I feel lonely in general because I feel like everybody else is gonna see me the same as how my family sees it and then you just end up hibernating because you don’t want people knowing what’s going on and then it just becomes all secretive. Uhm, pretty much it. It doesn't make you feel any better, if anything with family, it makes you feel a lot worse because you feel like you can’t give them what they want. And that’s- out of everything in life- that’s like my biggest issue. I feel like I can’t give my family what they expect of me. So yeah, that’s probably the thing that.. Does make me feel loneliest. But yeah. Yeah. pretty much it.

I: And you said with a group of friends.

R: Yeah..

I: Is that number 2 or -

R: yeah. It gives me anxiety, it makes me feel like I shouldn’t be there.

I: Tell me more about that

R: so I feel like I just want to leave the group of friends and go back to being on my own. I feel like it’s too overwhelming, I feel like there’s too much to live up to with a big group of friends. Like if it was a couple of people, it’s hard for me but I can deal with it better than a large group of people because I feel like there’s more opinion, there’s more people there staring, there’s more people that you’ve got to impress and you know, compete with and even speaking about it gives me anxiety. It’s just - it’s not- I hate being in a big group of people let alone a big group of people and new people. That is my worst fear. My worst fear is being with a large group of people who I don’t know. Uhm, whenever I’ve been in a situation like that, I have always made an excuse to leave and I have always left like I’ve never contemplated it. I’ve always done it because I don’t want to- i don’t know- like once I know that I’m leaving, the opinion is invalid. Uhm, straight away I think- do you know what, if I’m not gonna be a part of this and I do leave. I just don’t - I prefer not to speak to them type of people again because I don’t want to have to explain myself. I don’t want to explain why I left and I don’t want to have to explain why I don’t like being there, you know, why i’m never there, stuff like that.

I: when you say like to impress them, can you tell me more about that?

R: so it’s like, you know when you see somebody, you automatically get your first impressions, like, so when I met my partner- first- straight away I thought comfort, like he’s genuinely nice and stuff like that and I don’t want with new people or just people in general to, you know - it’s like another opinion type of thing. It’s their first impression of you could make or break the whole situation. And because you never know what they are, it puts me into a lot of anxiety and just throws me off and makes me wanna walk back because I don’t know what their impressions are so I don’t - I can’t go off anything, I can’t continue, I can’t like- it’s like you're stuck on pause. It’s either pause or rewind, nothing more. Uhm, yeah it’s not nice at all but yeah it’s - I think it’s one of them things say (1:32) it will always happen but you know, I think it’s just how you adapt to it, whether you’re willing to let it ruin you or not. Or whether you’re willing to change things so it don’t ruin you, you know. But yeah.

I: thank you. I need (1:32:27) home, you know, one of the places you feel most lonely and also home, one of the place you feel most socially connected

R:  yeah so home, in my room, on my own, I feel the most socially connected but at home not being in my room, on my own, I feel the most lonely. Uhm, but i think it does come down to who’s around you, you know, and how you let it affect you. Uhm, I mean like I said I’m never really here to let it affect me but I know if I am here, I know it would affect me. So you just kind of change your lifestyle to ... fit around how you feel rather than how others feel, at this point. It’s crazy, like your home could be one of your most comfortable, but also one of the most lonely places. It’s crazy to think that. You wouldn’t really expect it either but yeah. I think that’s all.

I: is there anything else you’d like to say

R: no..

I: Thank you very much.

R: you’re welcome
