---
source_filename: Participant 10 - Female, 24, Hackney (Part 1 & 2).docx
interview_number: 10
gender: Female
age: 24
borough: Hackney
parts_hint: Part 1 & 2
---

# Transcript
10 Interview

Key:

I:	Interviewer

R:	Respondent

I:	Can we start by talking about what you put in box 1, please?

R:	Yeah. Um…OK…so I’ve put we got … in the city, especially, lots of new friends all the time, but a lot of the time none of them really care.

I:	A lot of the time what?

R:	None of them really care. This is just so many people and we come to contact, especially me with my job … is very social. So it comes to contact with lots of new…new people all the time, and some … a lot of them are more so like temporary friends, as opposed to real friends, but I think it’s very easy to lose sight of who is a real friend and who is a temporary friend when we are into, you know, exposed to so many different people and so many different personalities all the time. It can get very, kind of like self-confusing. What layer priories can also… it’s very exciting meeting new people, especially we do lots of partying so, you know, just spend amazing times with new people, but they shouldn’t always really be the people that you put all of your energy into because in turn, you know, do you have experiences were… for a very short period of time you can get a lot of kind of pleasure and fun out of these temporary friendships, but when it comes down to it really that’s all it is, you know, that they don’t hold any longevity and I think that can allow you to feel lonely. Yes, so that’s something I’ve experienced a lot here. I have been in London for seven years. So you know I’ve met a lot of people in the seven years, and I only have probably a very select few that really are truly my friends. I just think probably it’s quite important to be aware that you don’t need to put your energy and time into people that you just meet on an everyday basis, because if you put your energy and time into them when they are not really, you know, gonna be there for a long time, then in turn you kind of making yourself lonely… Yeah, I don’t know how to elaborate more.

I:	When you say that they are not gonna be there, you know, for a long time. Can you tell me more about that please?

R:	Yeah, I think it’s, I mean, it’s a very hard thing to gage if somebody it’s gonna be your friend for a short period of time or a long period of time, which I guess it’s where the problem lies. It’s not always so easy to tell if somebody is going to be loyal and, you know, stick around for a long time… Yeah, it’s difficult to tell but I think what the main thing it’s more important to put your kind of your loving energy into the people that have been there for you. As apposed to getting overexcited…this is something I shall go with a lot and quite like have a lot of energy and if I meet people that match that energy I can like bump into it and get like so cozy excited I put too much into the people that are just really there for a good time and not really there for like to be there forever.

I:	When you say that they are there only for having good time and not forever, can you tell me more about that?

R:	I think it just seem the amount of people that you meet, you know, as I said, you meet people with the same energy as you, but it doesn’t necessarily mean that you are gonna spend all you time together and maybe your energy is only correct in that certain instance. So you meet somebody at the party and, you know, that’s where that relationship lies, it might not lies somewhere else. So to try not to always drag every relationship out into another instance, and sometimes just kind of accepts relationships for what they are, as opposed to trying to develop them too much. Coz that ’s sometimes, well, I found that you can run into problem that way.

I:	When you say when you run into problems, can you tell me more?

R:	I think it’s more about…it’s like loyalty, the fact that you know, that you kind of get really close to somebody in a really short amount of time, but you know, you can also be like kidding yourself like you probably don’t really care about that person as well, you know, as well as they don’t care about you. So you…you know, build up all these energy and excitement around your new friendship, and actually neither of you really care, you just building it on that moment that you met. As opposed to building it on you know a long period of time getting to know each other, and having mutual friends, family, other connections, and that’s when you can have longevity with the new relationship. You know, it doesn’t always happen that way. I’ve met lots of my best friends at you know a bit crazy events and stuff, but generally, I would find that people that, you know, have no connection to you whatsoever, are not really that stick around that though.

I:	How does that make you feel?

R:	I’m more content with it now than I have been, but I think that’s because I now have been here a long time like I have a really really really stable group of friends that, you know, I love them and trust them with everything So now it’s much easier for me to meet people and have fun with them, and accept that not to force a friendship or force a relationship because it can downfall in the future, you know, I think if you aware of it, then it’s easier to be a young person in the city. If you aware of that’s the way that things can go, but, you know, you have to go through it to kind of understand and, you know, obviously it helps to have a solid support system around you, which some people when they come to the city they don’t have, and I think you go through lots of hardship making friends at the start, and yeah but now, you know, I’m pretty kind of … I’m quite passing over there, but there are things that you know friendships that I look back on now I think that’s like a massive shame when it makes you…you know, kind of hurts that some people aren’t still in your life, although you both can be bothered to make the effort, even if you really like each other, but that’s because there are more important things to do.

I:	And how does that make you feel when you know that…when you aware of that you can’t build a strong friendship or a relationship with those people or with some people in the city. How does that make you feel?

R:	I think…I mean I don’t know whether it’s that I can’t it’s more that I’m choosing not to, which …Yeah, it kind of goes for circle like now, you know, maybe a year ago my … I wouldn’t choose not to, I would continue to try and build relationships with those people, who would probably give me some … you know, an inch back or they would try to build a relationship with me, maybe I wouldn’t give them as much back. And it slowly, you know, kind of fades away but like now I know where to focus my energy, it makes me feel stronger being able to kind of reject that. I think it’s better for you know…um…our minds, like our well-being to … to be able to say like no I actually I don’t need to develop this friendship, and you can still have acquaintances, that you don’t need to kind of waste your energy and time on trying to develop it. Because you know I think it makes you feel lonely when you focus too much energy on new people that are not the people that matter.

I:	So I guess that my question is how does it make you feel when you know that you choose…you have to or you choose not to go further and build that relationship? Because you said like you choose not to, because of, you know, relationships being, you know, sort of immediate and not long-lasting. How does that make you feel be in that situation?

R:	I think it’s very hectic, when you focus on too many people that you don’t know much about and when it’s hectic, it becomes stressful in an already stressful life style, you know, it’s kind of you are adding extra stress to your plate for something that probably doesn’t matter that much, and that’s what causes, you know, upset and distress and that can be lots of other problems, you know, in making new friends, you know, I have a lot of very big group of friends and they are all amazing but it’s almost like if somebody… when new people trying enter your scene, or you trying to enter someone else’s scene, that can also cause problems within the dynamics of the other people when I don’t want to be a part of them when I already have my… you know. Yes, so I think really by focusing on too many other people, making too many friends, you really are only harming yourself. And it’s sad coz then you…you haven’t put as much effort into that people that you really care about and that’s where the loneliness comes from.

I:	So sounds like what you are saying is you should invest more of your time in the people that they care about you, already built a stable relationship with them, as opposed to trying to make new relationships which you don’t know what might happen.

R:	Yeah. I think it’s always good to have an open mind, you know, I love meeting new people and like spending time with new people, but this is what I’m saying about kind of realising like where that relationship lies and not forcing yourself to develop it when you don’t really need to If something’s gonna develop, it will anyway. And I think that when you force a relationship to develop too quickly or you do too much or you meet too many of that friends, that’s when it can probably have like a catastrophic effect or it could plummet or you know…Yeah, so I just yeah more about kind of realising where that relationship lies, as opposed to, you know, really forcing yourself.

I:	Thank you.

R:	No problem.

I:	And you mentioned that it was hard to make friends at the start…

R:	I don’t think it’s hard to make friends, I mean, I’m really good at making friends, it’s very easy for me. And, you know, I would say that the majority of people that I know that are from out of the city that have come into the city normally are quite social people, you know, otherwise they probably wouldn’t make that move…but I think, you know, it’s just like filtering through, you have to filter through a lot, a lot of people before, you know, you really find people that you connect with or people that are gonna be there to support you or, you know, help you and love you, and generally what I would say from my experience, you know, I’ve always been able to make friends, but my best and closet friends, they’ve all come from some kind of connection. And so we are all connected together, whereas sometimes you meet a random person at a party or you know you go out whatever, there’s no connection there for you to build upon. So I think it’s important to pay attention to who you interacting with and who you kind of putting, you know, a lot of time into.

I:	So it sounds like you prefer those long-lasting relationships.

R:	Yeah, definitely. I mean when I was growing up, I had a big group of friends, or a big group of girls and a group of boys, and we were, you know, we still are best friends as one group, and you know, my whole life since I was 12 years old until I moved to the city, and it’s funny how your relationships kind of…building relationships kind of falls the same way because now I also have built a new group, it’s a big group of girls and boys, and I know some people who don’t have friendship groups like that, of that size, you know, some of the girls I know they have maybe two girl best friends or … which obviously I do have but I think …you know, now I’m like older looking back up the way that my relationships have been formed with people, that is the way that I kind of work best, that’s the way that I fit the best within a large friendship circle.

I:	Is there anything you still wanna say about box 1?

R:	No.

I:	Thank you. Can we talk about what you put in box 2 please?

R:	OK. So I put working…

I:	Sorry. Before we go on to box 2, I’m actually curious…It’s interesting what you drew and what you wrote. You just wanna maybe…Can I just read?

R:	Yeah.

I:	Lots of new people… What does it say here?

R:	Says party friends, party in brackets [laugh].

I:	Lots of new, in brackets, party friends, nobody really cares. So for example, and then you have this picture of you being this girl in the middle or anybody, and then there are all the other people who are party friends who don’t necessarily care.

R:	Yep.

I:	And then it says here…

R:	It says easy to lose sight of real friends.

I:	So how does that make you feel being in that situation, that you feel that no one really cares?

R:	I think it’s less about them not caring about me, and more about them just caring about themselves, which is a role that everybody has to take on. I’m sure that, you know, a lot of people feel that way there are so many so many people here and, you know, we would really have to look out for ourselves, before we start looking out for everybody else in the room. And so the fact that…the fact that no one cares, I mean it is horrible because I wish that we could all care about each other as much like as we care about ourselves, but just unfortunately that’s just not the way the world is. And so I think we just have to take care upon ourselves to look at that situation. And be kind, but not give too much of ourselves to other people. And they don’t necessarily deserve it. Yeah.

I:	And how does that make you feel being in a world where you feel that everyone cares mainly about themselves and not as much about others?

R:	I think it’s important now, I mean I think it’s more of like an awakening thing to be too care about yourself more that, you know, to care about somebody that you walk down the street. But I think it shouldn’t be like that feeling itself, you should try not use it in a selfish manner, so you know you can have self care without being selfish. We don’t necessarily doesn’t mean that we need to completely disregard everybody else, and I do think now you know sometimes that does get promoted to kind of just be like “Oh fuck everyone else, it’s just about me”, and that’s definitely not the way that it should be. You know, even just like you may really simplify it to like travelling and people just being so desperate to get…to get to a place that, you know, it would OK to push somebody out the way, it’s not. You know, be focused on what you are doing without, you know, being completely selfish and disregarding everybody else’s feeling. That makes me feel sad. And the fact that people, you know, having a, what’s the word, I don’t know being more entitled than somebody else, because we are all entitled to the same treatment. So I think I think that’s kind of the sad part about it, it’s like, you know, it should yeah it should be self care but not selfish. OK.

I:	And when you said that some people may sort of being more entitled. Can you tell me more about that?

R:	I think you know now especially with I mean I was pretty lucky because I just missed kind of the whole social media thing going ridiculous to everybody’s head. Obviously I’ve always been exposed to it, but I mean I use social media as a work platform not really as a social platform. And I think that’s really helped me stay grounded like mentally, but I think that’s so much kind of like content on the internet now and, you know, there’s lots of, you know, I’m better than her, she’s better than me, he’s better than me, whatever jealousy and stuff that gets throwing around because of the content that’s posted. And I think a lot also, you know, it’s all subjective, so there’s so much that you can read, and there’s so much content that are there being posted by people that don’t really know what they are talking about, it’s just an opinion. And I think for people that maybe are more naive or have less emotional intelligence or are younger, it can be taken in a different manner. So as opposed to being viewed, you know, some of these things being viewed as to go out there and be a boss. So you know, there’s lots of this kind of like…like get out there and do it. Do you know I mean this kind of attitudes, I think that I can be, as I said, it’s subjective, so can be read completely the wrong way and make people just kind of feel entitled for them to do things, you know, give them the sense of belief that “oh I can do this and this person can’t” or … I think it really is about subjectivity and people really into it in a certain way, and I think also when you don’t use the platforms from a business perspective, you don’t have to care bout what everybody else thinks if you don’t want to. I mean from my perspective I really have to … I have to be kind of careful with the content that I post. Everything I do is like an active choice because I don’t ever wanna… it would affect my business if I upset someone or if I was, you know, giving myself entitlement when I’m in a, kind of, you know a commercial crime facing job, I don’t want other people to think now I’m that way. Whereas if you’re just using it as a social platform, it kind of can have the opposite effect. So whereas for me would a downfall to kind of play myself that way for somebody that’s just … I don’t know influencing the looks or whatever I don’t know. This sense of entitlement can be a positive thing for their engagement, which is quite a shitty thing really, but there is just no way to stop it. Does that make sense, yeah.

I:	When you said that…let me see if I can try to … [pause&noise: moving stuff]. Just going back to what you said about social media. You said on social media people can have this attitude of I’m better than her, she’s better than me or I’m better than him, he’s better than me…Can you tell me more about that?

R:	Yeah. I think a lot of it is image related and related to the amount of followers people have, which is stupid. It’s stupid really because I know for a fact, I mean I have nearly 6,000 Instagram followers and my Instagram is purely work focused and so it’s all image related to hair and fashion, and I know that from that amount of following probably only 2,000 are really interested in what I’m doing and actually allow me to make money for my business, that other 4,000 are just there kind of floating around. So in terms of someone that maybe it’s just promoting themselves as a social aspect, some of these people, you know, they might have double triple whatever the amount of followers than I do, but a lot of them, I mean I know lots of bloggers through my job and stuff, and lots of them I meet, and I don’t like that attitude and I think that it comes from having so many people looking at them all the time, and this number kind of can really get a hold of some people and it allows them to probably feel entitled and think “I’m better than you because I have more people interested in me than there are interested in you”. And actually it’s bollocks, because the numbers don’t correlate. The only reason I know this is because I use it from a business perspective, so I have the gage on how many people are actually, you know, interested in what I do and how many people are literally just sat there kind of floating around the middle ground, not really, you know, they might have followed me one day but it doesn’t mean they’ve ever, ever looked into my work or really what I do, maybe one time, you know. And from this kind of the other perspective of influences whatever, I think the number is definitely something that gets played around with and people are like “oh I have this many followers, I have this many, I have this many…” and of course when you look, if you are go into, if I was going to look for a hair dress or whatever, I would probably pick somebody that have more followers than the next person. But I know that those numbers don’t correlate, so there’s no reason for people, social media influences and stuff to kind of build the sense of entitlement because they have a large number of people following them because, you know, not everybody is inspired by you, not everybody cares. you know, a lot of these accounts, you know, are other businesses that use, you know, programme and stuff to build a following that doesn’t mean that they are buying into you. But I do think that it’s something that happens. And I think it changes people’s perception on themselves, it’s like a race to get the most, get the most people following them, because that makes them better than the next person.

I:	How does that make you feel?

R:	I just think it’s ridiculous. It makes me angry, it doesn’t make me sad, it just make me angry. I feel more sorry for the people that are promoting themselves that way and I do for everybody else because I just think, you know, they must feel, they must feel lonely. Imagining you have a hundred thousand instagram followers and nobody really cares. They don’t really care about you, you know [laugh]. How can they? How can that many people care about you as an individual? But I think that’s what some people think, you know, it’s like a popularity contest now and it’s kind of sad coz people are like losing their track with the real world. And this is, you know, I feel like really grateful that I’m not that heavily affected by … you know … something that other women are, something that other young girls are, I’m not, you know, like body image issues, and feeling the need to build my following and doing all of that stuff. I’m lucky because I don’t feel those feelings, but I generally really do believe that it’s because I’ve always aimed my socials from a business perspective. You know, I have couple of friends that had to delete their instagram accounts, delete their twitters, delete their … you know, all their social accounts because it creates body image issues and anxiety issues, and from looking at other girls and thinking they’re better than me and, you know, my best friend, she recently had to delete lots of accounts because she said she just can’t face looking at all the beautiful girls. That breaks my heart because I would never look at another woman and compare them to myself. I can appreciate but I would never compare them and it makes me feel worse. And I think this whole number of followers really adds to the body image issue in young girls, definitely. Because I’ve seen it, I have like seen it first time and that shouldn’t be something that’s happening at all. It’s like it’s sad for, you know, my best friend to look at other women and think “she is better than me because she has x amount of followers, I have to remove my social”. No, you don’t. like that’s very sad. And she must feel lonely because of that.

I:	So you think social media makes people feel bad about themselves?

R:	I’m…in some instances, yeah. I know it does. I know lots of people they remove their accounts all the time. Why? you know that the only reason that you would do that is because it’s causing you stress from some angle. We don’t just remove things from our life for no reason. That’s what I think anyway. You know, if I don’t, if I don’t wanna look at people on instagram I just don’t scroll [laugh]. That’s the thing, but some people can’t help it. They have to look and it causes them problems and then, you know, and then they remove it and I think it, you know, in turn can cause issues with the real friends, because at the end of the day we are all connected by our social now, so it’s not as simple as like just calling someone and say “do you want me for a coffee”. Really isn’t that simple anymore, you know, a lot of my friends know what I’m doing … kind of know roughly my schedule because I post it online, so it’s a bit easier for them to know when I’m busy, when I’m not, and what work I’ve been doing recently, it’s much easier for them to, kind to be involved in my life without us chatting all the time. Through the social. But as I said my best friend she is completely removed, since she removed her social accounts she’s kind of pretty much removed herself also from her friendships. And she is the first person who I probably experience with this badly. And her job is completely, you know, she works in corporate, so it’s very different to the way that I live my life, and her schedule is completely different to mine, you know, there are lots of, lots of things that are really different in our lives. But it was I think it made her easier to connect with me and other friends, you know, when she could see what we’ve been doing more often. She could just look, instead of having, you know, it makes it more efforts, more jobs, it’s more on your plate when you have to actually like get in contact with people all the time, I find. When you actually have to think “oh I must text that person, I must do this, I must do that”, rather than, you know, just like we might reply to a story and be like just let them know the way you are still there. It’s just quick. You are owning your phone anyway. Do you know what I mean it’s just … and yeah.

I:	So you generally think that social media can make people feel lonely?

R:	Yes, definitely. A hundred percent.

I:	Thank you. Is there anything else you want to say about box 1?

R:	No.

I:	You wanna talk about what you put in box 2 please?

R:	OK. So I’ve put working freelance, or alone or independently, if you don’t really try and collaborate with others, they rarely approach, which I think it’s something, which I’m probably many feeling…not now, definitely in the summer, it was very difficult for me. You know, I love working for myself, and a lot of people do it now, it’s like very very very common for freelancers, especially in creative fields. And it has like lots of benefits, you know, I can wake up when I want, I can do what I want, I can set my own schedules, but I think what we kind of miss, well, what I certainly miss is interacting with other people that have a similar skill set as me. I think it’s a real shame that, you know, we don’t bounce ideas of each other all the time. On the other hand, it’s good to be able to work independently and to not always have a team around you, to not have all the other people’s ideas around you coz, you know, it really allowed me to flourish within my professional career, being a freelancer, working by myself. So I don’t think I would’ve got any of the opportunities that I’ve had now if I didn’t. I’m also much less anxious than I was when I work within a team. Because, you know, you can always have this idea of like am I doing it right, why are they doing it differently to me, but when you work alone, you can really kind of refine your skill set. And it doesn’t matter that you are doing it differently, it’s just somebody else, you know, but I think what the problem is once you’ve done that for a kind of a lengthy amount of time, that obviously you could always keep learning, you can always keep, you know, expanding your skill set but generally when you work alone, you have a higher work load, so it’s difficult to develop your skills in, you know, go on courses, or do all of the extra things that you might be able to do when you are working with other people coz generally there could be somebody else to pick up, something that you might not be able to finish all, you know. So I definitely think that kind of lacking in being able to go and expand your skills, makes me feel like alone from a work sense. I know things…it’s really really really…when you are independent like it’s really important to collaborate with other people and not necessarily people in exactly the same field as you, but to collaborate with other artists or creatives, so that you can, you know, have more creative projects and do more things that involve others, as opposed to just using yourself all the time, but there’s a problem that lies with that because most creatives want to collaborate with other people, but the problem is that we are all fighting for the same result, so if you don’t really try with each other and it’s totally a two-way street like I could promote that I wanna collaborate on issue, and hope that people come back to me, or I can wait for other people to do that, and then I can approach them, but I think if you don’t push the message out there, that that’s what you want, then others will rarely approach you. It’s more of they … as opposed to being quite like a personal thing, I don’t think collaboration is anymore, because I think there are so many people out here that are, as I said, we’re all fighting for the same goal, like we all want to be successful, we all want lots of connections, we all wanna make money, we all want to be like artistically proud. So I think you really have to voice that, in order for other people to realise that’s what you want. Otherwise, you know we are always gonna promote that we are doing well anyway, I’m not gonna promote like “I’m doing a bit crap of work”, this which, you know, we don’t promote that to other creatives, we just kind of do our work, you know, we are doing great, but then it comes to a point when you have to really really really try and work with each other. And yeah I think it’s more open than personal now like I sometimes I get approached and that’s really nice, but the majority of the time it’s more of a free … “hey! I’m doing this, does anybody wanna come and work with me?”, which then it’s very open-ended, you know. It would be better, I think if we more so directly went to each other. Even from like a social media perspective, we had a little bit more focus on “I love this person’s work and I really wanna work with this person, please come and we work together”, as opposed to being a kind of open-ended with the projects, which is what I feel like it is a bit like it now, but then, you know, there are so many people, there are so many other creatives. I think that itself makes everybody feel a bit lonely within their kind of freelancing work. You know, we have part of like lots of facebook groups and stuff that people post creative jobs, but it’s very rare that it’s, it would be specific, so, you know, what I specialise one thing, somebody else may specialise in another thing, they might just ask for a make up artist, and then they might get dirty responses. And that makes it less personal between each other. I know that’s a thing that is important to be … to be flexible with your skill set, and you know, to be able to cover lots of areas within that. I think it just makes it feel like a bit of like fight for everybody, is like dog-eat-dog, you know, it’s like who is gonna get the job, and that makes everybody feel like lonely, you know, I think I would be better if we were more specific in approach. And, you know, if I was looking for a photographer, like I want a photographer that’s specifically shoots this style, who can help me, as opposed to just saying “I knew a photographer who is free” and then having to filter out, you know, I think like the grand scale of it makes it easier for people to kind of promote it that way, because there are so many people fighting for the same jobs, but I think there are people that feel more…more secure maybe more like we kind of getting somewhere, building something, you know, building [45:21]a combination relations, if we were more specific in approach to that kind of thing, yeah.

I:	Thank you. Is there anything else you wanna say about box 2?

R:	No.

I:	Thank you. Can we talk about what you put in box 3?

R:	OK. So I put little to no rehabilitation for PTSD mental health issues, when we live in a standard city life style, and that’s sometimes we scorned for misuse of our life.

I:	Sometimes what?

R:	Scorned for misuse of life, which obviously is also subjective. One person’s opinion on how you should live your life can be very different to another person’s opinion on to how…as to how you live your life. Talking from like personal experience, you know, I’ve come…my mom is a nurse, have great faith in the NHS, like I think it’s an amazing thing, but I really do feel that, the mental health side of thing is, you know, desperately lacking. As I’m sure lots of people do. I also feel that in this city especially we really are overshadowed by the way we live our lives, as opposed to the fact that actually we are not very well. And it’s very easy, you know, most people, most people I know drink, take drugs, you know, have do some kind of substance whatever, everybody has a release and in a city like this, the stress level is very high like you can’t blame people. I went through a very bad, you know, it’s long time ago now, but I went through a really bad abusive relationship, and 3 times I went to the NHS and, you know, I’ve had treatment of mental health issues previously years ago, 3 times I went to try to get a treatment to help me leave the relationship and the first time I was refused because they wanted to send me to um, alcohol and drug rehabilitation first, in a place basically that is just full of homeless people and they drink alcohol, you know, ridiculous amounts everyday, they wanted to rehabilitate me that way. And the thing is that I wasn’t a drunk a bit though, you know, I was sometimes using drugs, sometimes drinking, but not, you know, all the time. And really probably the reason I was doing that was because I was in a situation where I was out of control and I really needed the help to get out of that, and they wouldn’t …I’ve been also the second time they refused me, I can’t remember why. The third time they accepted me onto course of treatment and then they said “actually no we can’t help you because we won’t accept anybody for therapy that’s in an abusive relationship, you have to be out of one for 3 months before they will give you any kind of therapy”. Now … for me, that was a really difficult thing to hear because I was just like “What?” you know, it’s like “what are you joking?”. You know, I’ve been constantly coming to you now, you know there is an issue, you know I’d had physical injury all sorts of stuff like you know there is an issue, I can’t believe you are not gonna help me. They obviously do point you to, you know, all the places that you can phone, and you know, get a little bit of advice or whatever, but honestly it really isn’t the same thing. When you are that desperate to get out of a situation, you need to be set in a room with another person for them to be able to help you. Basically, that’s the way that I see it, you know, there is no, I felt completely completely unsafe. I was having three panic attacks a day, you know, I was like experiencing psychosis all sorts of things, might prone to have borderline personality disorder, so I was very emphatic, and I felt like I experience, you know, I kind of … I learnt, I taught myself a lot of traits to deal with the situation that I was in. And there is no way that I could call around the number of my phone, no way on earth. And I think these things are, they are very small little things that a lot of people don’t realise, like really really really affect your life, you know, I can’t even to go to an appointment would be difficult for me, even just to go out and leave the house, you know, without having a valid, a valid reason. First said, you know, first said I’m going to the doctors of course. I could go to the doctors, but that that’s literally how severe I guess and I think just to be continually turned away for different reasons, the third one being the worse I can’t believe it, you know, to continually be turned away really makes you feel like "I’m fucked! I’m never gonna get out of this”. It takes a lot of really lots of courage anyway to even go and ask for help. So for somebody to just turn around and say “no sorry we can’t help you”, it’s you know, very sad and I understand, you know, there’s funding issues and some people are seen, deemed as a higher risk as others and all sorts of things, as to why they might reject reject you for therapy or CBT or whatever they are gonna give you, but I really feel that the rehabilitation for young people in dangerous situations really should, there should be a much stronger focus on that, and I feel like that the, probably if there was that would be less young people with drug and alcohol problems, I mean even now I still struggle with drug and alcoholic addiction or misuse or whatever anybody would like to call it. I’m pretty content with it now, you know, spend a long time like partying, doing this kind of things but I’m…it just makes me so mad because I feel like, if they have given me some help at that point, that my situation might not have gone to the point that it did.  And I had to go through…I mean, I basically have to exhaust the situation, I had to let it get to the worst possible point, so I could get out and that shouldn’t be, that shouldn’t be happening. People shouldn’t have to let their lives like drowned into the ground before they could make it better. Somebody should have helped me, and there is, there is another girl like somewhere, probably done this road like thinking exactly the same thing like “why wouldn’t anyone help me”. And yeah, I think there needs to be more support, more support for, more support for rehabilitating people out of dangerous situations because, you know, it doesn’t matter how many phone calls, it doesn’t matter how many phone numbers you give someone, it doesn’t matter how much like love you give someone, it doesn’t fucking matter, ever, none of that matters, the main thing that you wanna do is just keep yourself safe. And the way that I kept myself safe is by driving myself insane. I literally had to, I had to make myself so strong in ways that I’m not, I’m not built that way you know, I’m not built to be an aggressor, I’m definitely not built to be a manipulator, not built to be any of those things, but I had to learn those traits to basically like keep myself alive and nobody should have to force themselves to do that. Say I felt really lonely then, at that point of moment I’ve, you know, under somebody could have made me not feel alone but they didn’t. So yeah, I think that’s a huge problem in the city, I think that people don’t always know where to go, and you know, when they do, try, it… a lot of people often get turned away, often for drug and alcohol use. You know, we’ve always taught from a young age to be honest with your GP, you know, tell them what’s going on and it doesn’t work. It honestly doesn’t work. And I’ve seen a doctor as well who said “when you go to your assessment, don’t tell them you drink and don’t tell them you use drugs". A doctor told me to do that. Because otherwise they just be critical at you, even if you are in a life-threatening situation, they would still say no. And half the time, you know, people, young people, they don’t wanna stop drinking, they don’t wanna stop taking drugs. You know, it’s very creational most of the time and, um… so why does that allow the NHS or whatever mental health service you are going through whatever it is to…to turn you away, when you are in a life-threatening situation. For me like that’s probably one of the things that I really felt the most strongly about and I think it had a horrendously negative impact on my life because now I don’t need, now I don’t feel like I want their, I don’t want their help. I still need rehabilitation, I’m still like going through these issues, but I don’t want them to help me, because I got out of it myself, you know, I didn’t need their help at the end, but I shouldn’t have to have gone through that, it could have been easier.

I:	I’m sorry about that.

R:	That’s OK, you know, I’m pretty content with it now. I just don’t really talk about it very often, not that very passion, passionately, you know.

I:	Let’s move onto the next one so you don’t have to … re-memorise that you felt uncomfortable, and… is it OK now?

R:	Yeah I’m fine. OK, number 4 I’ve put that travel and rent expenses make it difficult to maintain family relations and build on ones that we may have lost. I think a lot of people come to the city when they are very young. I was 19 so super young, you know, I left home at 18 and I never went back. I’ve got, you know, I’m really close to my mom, I’m really close to my brothers that in Nottingham so not that far away. But you know, I have another side of my family, my dad’s side of the family who… and my dad wasn’t my blood father so he…my mom met him when I was like 3 months old, he brought me up, and he had lots of other children whatever, I guess I kind of, I start living my own life when we kind of lost a little bit of touch. I’m not too bothered about him, but I was very very very close to my grandparents on his side, and my cousins, and then I moved to London and, you know, that’s very little contact between that side of my family now. That isn’t something that I want, really, but I rarely travel home even to see my mom and I think that, you know, you have to sacrifice somethings to live here and it’s very difficult to kind of balance some place where you should put your money, what’s most important, and for me really what’s most important was building a career that’s why I came here. And you know when I first move to London, I was an apprentice, so I was earning like 200 pound a week, which is literally nothing. So I think I paid like a hundred forty pound a week  on rent, so I was literally living on 60 pound a week, which made it impossible to go home like there is no way that I can afford to go home, see my family when I’m literally like breaking, I mean I like broke every week, you know, but it can be done and I’m really glad that I put that time into it because I was, you know, very fortunate I worked really hard, and I’ve great career but, um, I think that also, you know, when you stop seeing what’s being to people so much, if you do suffer from anxiety or other kinds of mental health issues, it then makes it harder to approach those people because I felt guilty, I feel … I don’t feel guilt for many things very much, you know, do things because I want to do them, but I feel so guilty for not speaking to these people for such a long time. And I could have tried harder. I’m sure but there’s so many other things that I have to focus on and now I’m not [1:01:36]upon… but I’m just like, I just don’t even know how to do it, like I just don’t even know how to pick up the phone, because I’m that anxious that they are, like upset with me. And I don’t wanna hear it, but yeah, I think like the cost of living basically is made of very difficult to maintain relationships with people that don’t live in the city. And also you know, you have to focus a lot, as I spoke about earlier, you have to focus a lot of time and energy, when you first move here or to any city on building a support network that’s around you. That was for the first 3 years the most important thing for me, coz that’s the only way you are gonna survive here is by how many immediate support network, you know, having a very very tight support network 200 miles away isn’t gonna help me, you know, it’s important to have that right next to you or, you know, half an hour away. And I don’t speak to my mom that often, I mean we still got great relationship, my brothers are good but my mom’s been through lots of things since I’ve been here and I feel guilty for that as well, you know, that I’m the oldest, I’m the only girl and I left and she didn’t have me as her support really necessarily, and as her only daughter I think that’s important, she needs my support but I just haven’t been able to give it to her mainly because of money. And I think I’m not a very money motivated person at all. I do everything because I love it, and if I don’t love it, I won’t do it, which is also huge downfall for me because I could make a lot more money than I do very easily, but I do things for a different reason, you know, but I think after kind of 7 years of living here, now I recognised this.

I:	This you mean the manner?

R:	Yes, at first, you know, you don’t really recognise it, because you just striving to make it in the city, it’s more about, it is about you. But when you’ve lived away for such a long time, now I recognise that my relationships with my family, who are on here, are some have been lost, and some aren’t as strong as they could be. And I think that’s mainly to do with money, because I think if I wasn’t so broke when I first moved here, I probably would have continued to go home a little bit more, but because I was so skint, I’m just kind of got used to not really going back and, but then, you know, when that builds up over, you know, almost 10 years, that’s a long time for a relationship to dissolve. It’s very easy to slip out of your hands. So I think the money plays a major effect in maintaining a family relation and so on, and you know, I have a lot of clients that are Australian, a lot from Australia, New Zealand and they always say that they wish that they could go home because they feel guilty, but they can’t. And I think we kind of accept it as a sacrifice that you have to make, but I don’t think that we should have to. Yeah, I think it’s accepted like “well you know I moved here to do this so I would have to focus on this” and you know, not think about what’s going on at home so much, you know, this is my life but that was my life before, you know, so I think…not having any money is just, just makes it really hard. I don’t think it’s something that many people talk about, really. I don’t hear really anyone talk about going home and definitely don’t, I mean, my friends definitely longing to see their parents more than all the family like, more than once every 6 months which is not enough. I don’t think it’s enough to maintain a healthy kind of balanced relationship. And as I said, you know, if there’s a little bit less important that other members of your family, it can just, just completely disappear, the relationship disappears. I’m sure it’s still there somewhere, but it’s just, now it’s really hard for me to approach that situation, because I’ve been out there for such a long time. And I just feel it makes me like, feel sad for myself. I feel like I missed out. I don’t know a lot of kind of like family experiences and, you know, people, kids growing up, we miss how along, and more so for the children. I don’t, but I want them to know who I am, you know, but we don’t always have that optioned coz it’s like they’re too expensive or too busy. And I think this is something I’m gonna try to deal with it a little bit next year, but I think more people need to talk about it because I think more people, like … I think a lot of people feel this way and don’t discuss it, definitely. There are so many young people where and nobody can really afford to go home and visit their family, and as I said before, it just like disappeared. If you don’t actively try and maintain that relationship, it will just dissolve. So yeah, and then, you know, it’s been a long time, it’s just way harder to approach it.

I:	I think you mentioned of being busy and not having enough money kind of make you feel disconnected from love ones, your family or even your friends.

R:	Yeah for sure. I think that’s also to do with the, like looking … putting yourself first thing, and I think we kind of talk all we see, observe others in the city and it makes us… I mean like “OK go go go You need to do this for work do this for work. This would make me successful. This would make me better at my job and this would earn me more money”, but it’s been that busy and that like, having that much over your head, is that self care? Or it’s looking at situations like relationships with your family and helping yourself mentally or getting help mentally, and is that self care? I think it’s very hard to balance.

I:	Thank you.

R:	You are welcome.

I:	So anything else you want to say?

R:	No. I’m good.

I:	Thank you [collecting papers].

Interview 10 – part 2

Interviewer

Interviewee

Interviewer

Interviewee

Interviewer

Interviewee

Interviewer

Interviewee

Interviewer

Interviewee

Interviewer

Thank you.

It's okay.

Can we start by talking about what you've put first?

Okay, places I feel most socially connected, there are three bars in this area, here: the white place, the stars space and the grey bar each location is a cafe / bar / pub / social hub, locals can work and play in the environment and it's convenient and friendly for everybody, um in specifically, these three places are really built for people to be socially connected with each other, especially for them um to be work environments, as well, so, you come in here during the week, this isn't like, it is a drinking bar at night, but most of the time, there's people like in here, on their laptops or it will be like a meeting point or just there's a place down the road that also has like art gallery inside and they have lots of events going on, which means you can show your work if you want to, there's like a, there's like a free library, you can take books, bring your own, drop them off and stuff, there's a pretty cheap cafe as well and then 'Grey bar' down the road, they have, every night they have something different going on, something else that's free, and they also have specific kind of like a timetable on there, um, that basically says what you can come and do, at what time so there's like a specific time booked out every day. I think it's from like 2 until 4 where it's like supposed to be quiet for people to work and then like the next two hours after they might have live band everyday there's something like free for the locals to do which is quite nice, that's also like, completely like, completely green, which is really amazing for us in Hackney, I love things like that. So, so they have solar electricity and they grow all of their own plants and food and stuff, so to me, that's a really good way to keep people like... one, interested, I think the timetable thing's really cool, I've never seen that in a bar before, especially somewhere that's like known for people to go and have a drink, for them to say actually this, I'm gonna still come and have a drink, but actually between these two hours every day, like don't be rowdy, I think that's quite good.

Don't be what?

Don't be rowdy, you know, because people are going to be working, I think that that's um, that's really interesting, all of these areas, I mean these guys, obviously there's lots of people that live on boats here, so they kind of have to be quite accepting of that, people are always going to come in and use the water or use the toilet, things like that and it's completely acceptable, like everybody's really kind, yeah, I think that these few places are definitely like everybody, everybody that you ask in the area would say the same thing. Yeah, there's obviously more like bars and night clubs and stuff, but I think that these are the most kind of social spaces where you can, almost like multi-purpose space, spaces, as opposed to them just being like, to get wasted, um, yeah.

What about the next one?

Hmm, I've put, obviously, I've just moved, but I started to feel really lonely, working alone in the studio, um I only, I have been freelancing for a long time, but I normally do contract with another company or something at the same time, but just for the last six months, I've only been working just on my own, um, and I started, basically, it just means I have little interaction with other people with the same job as me and little variation in location, um, just, I mean more importantly, the less interaction with other people with the same job, I do have other friends that obviously do the same thing, but when you're just working on your own with the client that can, every day a different client in the same environment, it just starts to feel like a little bit, it's like you never have anyone else to ask for advice, or to even got an idea of, or even just converse with, so when I've been working on my own for like six months, I don't know, I just started to feel like a bit lonely. Obviously, I was never really lonely because I'd always have somebody there with me to talk to, but um in terms of working and me being in the same place all the time, um it, because in my environment nothing really changes there, if you're in a work environment, like I don't know, if I was working in a salon, or, or on set, or whatever, there's always different people coming and there's always different things going on, um, so I think that's kind of made me realize that I need to do both, I need to still kind of be working in a, another environment, where there's going to be other people around, rather than just me and an individual all the time.

How does that make you feel?

Fine, it's not like, it's not awful and I really, like I love to be able to just get up when I want and just do whatever I want, um but I think that there's less chance for more progression, because my skills, I can develop my own skills, but it's much easier to develop your skills when there are other people around you, giving you techniques or tips or whatever, so if I continue to do that, my skills aren't really gonna excel any further, I might get better at what I'm already doing, but in terms of like more, more concrete development, it won't really go much further, yeah.

Thank you, um, okay, is there anything else you want to say? *pause* I'll stop it now.
