---
source_filename: Interview 43 - Male, 23, Tower Hamlets (part 1 & 2).docx
interview_number: 43
gender: Male
age: 23
borough: Tower Hamlets
parts_hint: Part 1 & 2
---

# Transcript
Participant 43 – Male, 23, Tower Hamlets

I: Um, can we start by talking about what you put in box one, please?

P: So, um, box one, um, I drew a diagram. So the stickman refers to an individual, and the circle is what's around that person. So in terms of loneliness, it doesn't matter you've seen around the people, even if they have family, friends, have a social life or having the time to themselves, a career, even those factors, they won't they rarely fill that loneliness void from, if you know what I’m trying to say, in a sense of like, sometimes all of that stuff will not be enough for an individual, whereas someone else from another perspective seen “oh wow, this person has got family, he's got a good group of friends, his social life is great. He has time to go to himself, me time like going to the gym, going for a job and his career is good”, but sometimes all of that isn't enough for that one individual, so they still experience loneliness and what not. So, it doesn't matter how much stuff you have, sometimes it's just not enough to fill that loneliness void inside in yourself. And box two I wrote…

I:  before we go box two, uh, I’m gonna go a bit deeper into each box. Is that okay?

Yeah, yeah, That’s fine.

Thank you. So, it sounds like what you're saying is, you know, you could have everything, family, friends, career, you know, a good social life, etc., but even if you have all of that, you can still feel lonely.

I feel like it sometimes can be that, oh, another thing I forgot to write there is “money” as well. So, because sometimes, um, when you have all of that, they're connected, they might be connected but in a way that you are not feeling that satisfaction, so for example, say if a person was, had a very good life, you see in his social life that - going on holidays, buying luxury brands, spending money with a group of friends. Sometimes you might feel like is it because of me, who I am, that they are with me because of my state status of wealth and what I have, so they might be just doing it for the other factors, whereas that individual might feel like is, it's not even, it's still not filling that void, because sometimes you can experience it, see it, like a person can have nothing at all, but yeah, might have one or two friends that could fill that loneliness, whereas a group of another individual could have everything, but still won't, won't have that uh, loneliness filled in their life. Uh, yeah.

I: So, it sounds like what you're saying is you could have all the luxury stuff. You could have all the friends you could have go on to other holidays. But these may not necessarily be enough to make you feel satisfied or less lonely.

You can. You've seen as well in some celebrities when they commit, sort of like, recently I don’t know, DJ Kolavicci, so he's a DJ and he committed a suicide, I'm not sure how long ago but fairly recent and he said that oh cause of depression and anxie-, like psychologically he affected because he committed suicide. Um, this is how I’m expressing it, I feel like, he had all the stuff but yet people were saying “why did he kill himself?”. I feel like it’s because psychologically he might have had that loneliness like and someone would prefer to have that simple life where there's meaning, whereas, having all of the other stuff, the luxury life isn’t all that satisfaction it would give you.

I: when you say it is, it doesn't give you that satisfaction. Um, can you tell me more about that?

In terms of satisfaction, just like having that connection, you’re knowing that there’s someone with you for the reasons you want them to. It's like, to get away from that loneliness, you need to connect someone with someone just by um, just by the individually just looking at their deep thoughts and their perspective and then get, that’s how they get connected, having that same bond, that relationship that kind of moved that loneliness away because they know that, the individual and other person are connected regardless of whatever this is.

I: So, what you're saying is, um, what would matter is, um, you know, these sort of deep connections that people have, um, not necessarily the external factors. Um, like what you wrote here, um, yeah?

Yeah. So I feel like at the end of the day, when push comes to shove, you wouldn’t realize like  whose there for you, even in times of loneliness, so you might have all that luxury and then one day you might end up having nothing and then you might then then you notice, like, who's there, who's not, to fill that loneliness when that time comes. Yeah.

I: Um, and how does that make you feel?

Um, I’ve kind of seen both sides of it. Sometimes you do feel loneliness and it’s like, sometimes your friends aren’t around, and sometimes you need to be with the friends because it takes away all of the family pressure away from you. So, because you might have loneliness in the family, but you got your friends there to be by the side supporting you. So, I feel like each of these factors are points that I wrote, ah, an important factor that can hope to fill that loneliness. So, one factor maybe bad, but you have another factor that's good. It can just kind of works. Even if both sides is still good, then your career might make you feel that loneliness causes of where you work, in your environment, so you still know that “alright I'm just doing it for the sake of money, but I know I can go home to my family, they can fill that loneliness for you where you actually have someone to talk to, some to get along with or after work and I’ll go meet with my friends. Uh, and just socialize. Just keep my mind off stuff moving away from that loneliness side or I can go gym, for example, where can I go jogging. And doing stuff maybe going to the library, because it just takes the focus off everything. Because if you're at workplace sitting at a desk by yourself, you tend to you can get lonely as well, because you need somebody talk to everyday because you can't go without talking to someone. So, I feel like, I mean even career side even if any of these factors, you always have one thing to go to that can help for that loneliness.

I: So it sounds like what you're saying is if you feel lonely within your family, you have you, you have your friends to go to.

So, you would kind of have something else in your life that can help for that loneliness.

I: yeah, so, so just generally, from what you're saying, it seems that um, what tends to be lacking um, is you know, that sense of connection that people have with each other.

Yeah, I feel like nowadays in terms of connection is social media technologies kind of get, put that gap in between people because nowadays everyone's on their phones, even myself, we always use our phone constantly. We never really had that one time where, let's, let's just say me and my friends went out, we never had that one day, “let's, let's put phones away, let's just talk, have that connection, that stuff I feel like it's gone, it’s slowly going, fading away. And that's why I feel that technologies a well can have that impact because sometime move the phone away and just talk one to one face to face and yeah, that's why it can help with the loneliness as well.

I: Who does that make you feel not being able to have that?

Sometimes it does get annoying in terms of like, right, all of us came out, we’re sitting in the restaurant eating and just, just talk all of us. Even myself I do that because everyone else is on it and like, it kind of takes that connection away because at the end of the day you just wanna go in. If everyone put their phone away and just talk, you have a laugh, it kind of takes your mind away from all the other factors the negative factors in your life. And can just put you in a bubble for a minute that you're just enjoying life. You have your friends that can fill that loneliness. Um, same with family as well, but with families as well everyone so like when you have siblings, when they get married, they have kids, they lived their own lives, so you kind of know that the fact that as much as you all want to be together, everyone's living a separate life so as well that connection starts to fade away. But I think but we try in my family we try to stay connected as that as much as we can, but at the end of the day everyone has their own life that they live.

I: How does that mean? How do you feel about that?

Which one the family?

I: Yes

Um, it's a harsh reality, but I kind of kind of accepted the fact that, yeah, you can't always stick around together because everyone has their own life, they’ve got their own families. But the loneliness is comes and goes here and there, cause you got nephews and nieces and you see them, sometimes just miss them. Because he also being with being with kids or nephews, it takes you away from all the negative stuff out of your life cause you’re just with someone just talk, playing around or just holding the nephews and niece.

I: Uh, so, um, just going back to what you said earlier, um, you could have, um, like everything here, like great friends, you know, family, having that social life, time to yourself, career, money, as you said earlier. But, but despite all of that, you can still experience loneliness.

Yeah, I feel like you can still experience it, because sometimes all of that is just not enough for one person. They might be missing something like a partner, boyfriend or girlfriend. I feel like that's maybe one thing they’ve so focused on this [referring to one of the drawings] they forgot about the other half and that's where they experience loneliness as well, because you’re focused on so much of your career, friends and family, you never thought about that. However, let me hold that, had you had a partner, how would that circle change? So that could be one factor that still they can experience loneliness regardless if they have everything, even vice-versa, say if he has a girlfriend or boyfriend then the friends kind of might fade away or family my fade away as well.

So, you still might experience loneliness as well, because it’s quite hard to say it it's an expressive about words and kind of see it as well. Because if you have a girlfriend, or boyfriend, you kind of distance yourself because priorities change. So then when you do say if you’re with someone, and you didn’t see your friends for like a good few months and you go back into that circle, you still feel that loneliness experience because so much stuff could happen in that few months like, because we've seen it with one of my mates. He has a girlfriend and he hasn't come out for, I'll say a month. So in that month, so much stuff has happened within our group. So, we just and then he comes in he’s like “when did this happen? When did that happen?” That's when you can experience loneliness as well, like the thinking that this is my friends I shouldn’t feel lonely but I experience loneliness because I’m missing out uh, certain events in different life. Yeah.

I: And you also mentioned, you know, having money and you know, traveling a lot and spending a lot can you, and can tell, and can you tell me more about that?

Um, that's all by social media people, it’s like, so you see people buy luxury stuff or going holiday, have the money is like that's all just for show, you never know what they're really experiencing behind the scenes, because all on social media, everyone wants to show their successful side the happy side but in reality and true they would never show the nitty gritty side, the stuff that's really going behind the scenes. So that one individual may have money from money, the luxury, but he might just go home to an empty flat. And that's where he can experience loneliness or her can experience loneliness because maybe the other people that he takes or she takes pictures with for Instagram or for Facebook, just might be there just for the money. So, when you go back home who was there really to fill that loneliness.

I: And how does that make you feel?

So, I feel like everything I see on Instagram and Facebook, I, sometimes does get a bit jealousy, but at the end of the day you never know what's really happening behind the scenes of that person's life. They could have everything, car, money, holidays, going to holidays every year, but it's not feeling void of loneliness. Whereas I, might not have that other factors but I still have that connection with friends, family, the social life that myself, my career that still can fill that void of loneliness. So sometimes you don't need that stuff. You got other stuff. Um, but it can work either way as well like, maybe that lifestyle fills the loneliness and the other stuff doesn't, doesn't make them feel lonely, you know, I’m trying to say.

I:  Yeah. Um, that sounds like what you're saying is when you see some people on Facebook or Instagram or whatever social media and then them traveling or doing things that you may not necessarily be able to do at that time, that makes you feel sort of so you said a bit jealous or

It’s a bit, it’s not, it’s like. It’s a bit of jealousy because like you see these bloggers that, let’s be real, there's no education like the fact that they get famous for doing something stupid, people are there trying their best to do something to make their life worthwhile but yet they can't have that luxury stuff and that way people can still feel lonely. I think like wow, it’s real and true to you, I don't need to do this, the materialistic stuff can fill that loneliness void, but that's how social media and technologies can influence someone easily.

I: So, you're saying that these people who would like pictures of them travelling or leading luxury lives, you're saying that they may feel they may have this luxury life on social media, but then they may go to their empty flat in the evening feeling lonely. And yeah…

Yeah, so that way it’s like a 9-5 job, 9-5, the posters and show that the highlight and what not and then they come home to an empty flat with no one there besides them, no one to actually talk to, because when they go on social media there's all money fame, and then once they go home, there's no one there to fill that. That's where you actually experience loneliness and, in the fact, that it gets you thinking like, so all of these people that friends I’m with, they’re only there for the what I have, my status, so that way you too experience loneliness, but sometimes they won’t show it because they don't want to show the weak side.

I: Um, um, is there anything else we want to say about that box?

No, I feel like I’ve covered more or less in box one.

I: Thank you very much. And can we talk about what you put in box two?

16: 55 So box two is words I’ve written down when, when you feel like when you experience the loneliness. So the first one I wrote in box two is “quiet”. So, when a person feels lonely, I feel that they tend to be quiet, very introvert, keeping themselves to themselves. Not really talking or doing stuff, just sitting there, the second line says “tiredness” as well. When people were just when you sleep and just stay in bed and just lie there or just being tired because they just questioned himself about “I have no one, I’m lonely. So, what's the point of me doing this? Might just stay in bed.” and third word I wrote is quite linked with the first second word, title: “Stationary” - it is in a sense of just like sitting down and not actually going out, doing stuff, not being active, just sitting in front of the TV, or sitting in front of your phone and just browsing when watching TV, while you can actually try to go out, remove that loneliness away, go out to cafes, gym, play football and else. And try to socialize. And, also you mood can another, another word I wrote is mood. So you kind of your your mood can kind of change with loneliness. So how I go back to the first word quiet. You can end up being very introvert or you might be negative just shutting people out because you experience loneliness and you might end up with someone or that created create a connection with someone but you know the fact the risks of what can happen if you break that connection, you can experience loneliness, but you can experience it in the hard way of life that you had someone, now you don't have none at all. So the mood can change.

And the last word I wrote is “questioning yourself” in a sense of like with loneliness is like, say for individual lived by themselves. They had no flat mates or partners or family living with. They wake up and then like: “do I really want to go to work? Do I really want to do this? Do I really want to do that? I might as well just stay at home because I have no one and just sit or sleep or just do nothing. So, you kind of question yourself of doing certain stuff and actions. The loneliness can trigger that questioning yourself. Is it worth doing? Um. Yeah.

I: So it sounds like what you're saying is, um, sometimes you know the experience of loneliness, one may question themselves, you know, um, like, well, I, I don't have this, so I don't have that. I’m not sure if I understood correctly, is it okay if you can elaborate a little more about the “questioning yourself” section.

Um, it’s hard to put it into words because, um, in terms of questioning yourself, it's like when you're lonely, you kind of just don't move, you don’t want to do anything in a sense of like is it worth me getting out bit in the 7 am to go to it do I really want to go to it? because it's not gonna fill my void of loneliness is it? Or you question your yeah, your question yourself about is it worth doing stuff? Is it worth trying to connect with someone. The fact that that loneliness can disappear, but come back again, because you experience of loneliness for so long sometimes people they might question themselves saying like, Do I really want someone in my life now? I've been single for ten years and I’m lonely, but they might like that fact of being lonely. So then if they do want because at the end of the day people have needs as well, male and female. So, if she/he does or she/her gets male or female partner, they might question themselves and “do I really want that person because if I get that person, build that connection, then break up with her that then that loneliness is gonna hurt even more” because you invested in your time with that person, your, your emotions, you’re building, you’re spending time with each other. So, if they break up, that loneliness can get even worse, possibly because of experience waking up with someone or getting that good morning text or texting throughout the day. And once they're broken up, that loneliness can hurt them so badly, as well because you get into that routine of waking up, your girlfriend texting you “good morning” or texting you throughout the day. And that fills the loneliness. And if you break up that loneliness just opens up again and you just stop…ahhh…. you feel shift inside you, it's just a mood change as well. And that's where you start to question yourself about oh I cannot be bothered to go to gym or I cannot to go work. Because you're lonely because the fact that you broke up with someone, um, yeah.

I: So you're saying that, you know, on the one hand, you know, uh, not having a partner can make you or anyone feel lonely. And on the other hand, you know, there's that worrisome about you know, the breakup element of it, which can lead to loneliness as well.

Yeah, so there's this you always gotta weigh up the pros and cons of each side, the, sometimes you gotta take that risk being with someone, even though that loneliness can come back. But you just gotta think of the positives, try to move that move away from the loneliness. So it's just if you're willing, willing to take that risk of being with someone or being with someone for example, because I feel like being with someone is more, can completely move away from that loneliness because when you’re with someone, that’s your, ideally you’re looking to possibly marry that person and that can be your companion for life. Because when you go back to the box one we said about all these other fact about family, friends when really and truly at the end of the day will become your husband, husband and a wife. So, friends, career they all start to um, the loneliness will move away from that and the main factor would be with that companion the partner. Yeah. So it’s a big risk in terms of having someone you can move away that loneliness or you can come back. But much more worse.

I: So it sounds like, yeah, not, you know, sounds like not having a partner can make, make people feel lonely. And then on the other hand, um, the possibility of losing that person…

Can make that lonely more worse. Yeah, it's like the opening from an old wound, it is gonna just unleash more bad stuff or negative stuff in that person's life.

I: So, breakups essentially can make, make you, let’s say, feel lonely.

Yeah. I have seen it first hand when a person broken up completely affected them because it it does fill that void of loneliness. Cause you have someone there with you, 24 seven and by your side, texting or going out and if that's all that's gone, that loneliness is just there and that's where you feel a bit shit. And you don't wanna do anything. That's when you become quiet, that’s when you become tired with mood changes, cause that loneliness is there. And in your mind, you're thinking like, “I don't want to…. will I find another person like her again or him again or do I risk finding someone else and have, what I've been through happening again.”

I: Um, does that make you feel if you were in that situation?

Um, I do have someone at the moment and I feel that it does fill the loneliness and what I experienced before I was with someone, yes, I felt lonely at times, because sometimes there is certain stuff you wanna talk about, you're not comfortable with your friends or your family or you can't express it through going football, or going gym or doing other work. You need that just one person you can talk to. So, before I did feel loneliness in sense of like I didn't have no female partner but now I do it kind of fills, it fills the void now because you can talk to that person about anything more or less because you're so emotionally invested with that person. You build that uh, relationships, you build that time and effort you given now you feel comfortable, you can say anything and that way that removes I feel like that removes the loneliness away.

I: So it sounds like what you're saying is, you know, um, that sort of strong emotional relationship that you have with someone can make you avoid loneliness because you are able to express yourself, you're able to share things with that person you may not necessarily share, be able to share, want to share with others.

Yeah, so the seven stuff that you do the theme in me like, for example, I wouldn't like, me and my boys go out, we wouldn't really go walking in the park cause that's not our type of thing. But that I might like that and whereas my female partner likes that as well so walking together in a park, for example, can feel that uh, fill the void of loneliness, because you both have that same connection. You both like walking in the park. And before then she really never had no one to walk with. Well I didn't have anyone to walk with. So it kind of works out. It fills that void. So, there is certain stuff that you can talk with your friends. You can talk with a girlfriend, you can talk with the family. Uh, so that's why I feel that having a partner kind of tops most of it being at the top of filing the loneliness void. Cause the end of the day, that's your partner for life if you were to marry her and it's just you, it's just you two in your journey of life and trying to fill that other void loneliness and anything else because friends it would be there. But at the same time, they might have uh, wives, families that need attention. So as a as long as, as we get older like when I was in college, we always used to come out every day more or less, chill till late. Now all of us are working full time, nine to five life that coming out has decreased rapidly. So we used come out maybe three times a week now to once a week, we just about come out. If, if I’d say if I didn’t have a girlfriend now and I’m how I’m now, like I had a job but I didn’t have a girlfriend, but all my friends wasn't there. That loneliness is, is just gonna be floating around because I had a long week at work. I want to go out my friends, but they're not here because they're busy whereas now I have a girlfriend because we know what our priorities are We try to prioritize each other first. So, if, if my mates, I will always ask her first or “you want to come out”, and she’d be like” sure, yeah, let's, let's go out to eat or something.”. Then you go, because that's how you know that having a partner tops it out of friends and family because you know, they're always gonna be each there for one another and it fills that loneliness void whereas your friends can always have fill that loneliness void because they have priorities, family’s like, normally you don’t want to go cinema with my mom and dad, that's not their thing or we don't wanna go um, football because they don't play sports. Uh, so it's always I feel that partner tops it in terms of filling that loneliness void.

I: Um, so it sounds like, you know, having that deep connection with someone, um, sort of um, helps to alleviate feelings of loneliness, um, yeah,

Cause I feel like with a partner, you go through the thick and thin, thick and thin of stuff, so you might have a period where you’re happy, you might have a period where you’re sad, but you still have each other. That's what can fill that loneliness for a month. We’ve been through so much together, but we're still with each other. And that can increase uh, that feeling that normal I’m not feeling lonely anymore. So, knowing that what we've been through, that we're still in each other’s side.

I: I noticed that you did didn't put um, “partner” in this one [referring to the drawing]. Is that classified under family.

No, I completely forgot about “partner” when I was drawing that circle. Family is like mom, dad, siblings, nephews, nieces, uh, partner would, if I would I would kind of write here, can I write here?

I: It’s okay.

Partner would be another separate factor.

I: So you're saying that even if you had a partner, you can still feel lonely.

That depends really. Um, if you had a partner, it depends how both of you are. If you're quite like for like in terms of your career, had a social life, having happy family, it is then that loneliness can be voided. Whereas, for example, um, if you had a partner and she was a schoolteacher, for example, and I was working in an office, that loneliness can still be around because in terms of getting annual leaves, I have to accommodate around her time because she can't take a normal day of the holidays based on school holidays isn’t it.

So sometimes I can't get any of the school holidays and that would make me work and she's gonna be at home. And that vice versa as well. Knowing that I'm going to take days off where she can't because they have to take within the school holiday so that loneliness can be around. Because when you have annual leaves, you just spend time with each other, you’re away from everything and it feels good. So, you even if you had a partner, it can still affect your loneliness in terms of your career, for example, or family or she spends too much time with her friends but that's when you meet your partner, you kind of get to know each other. Then you then as you get to know to as time passes, the priority changes, then you slowly become, she slowly becomes the main priority. And that's what I’ve experienced. So I know I’ll see her more than I’ll see my friends. My friends just once a week but with her I see her maybe twice or three times a week.

I: When you for example, um, even if you have for, I am just thinking, um, so with this circle that you do here. So, if you said you have family, social life, let's say a partner, your friends and your career, um, even if you might have all of that, even if, if you had if you had a partner also, you could still feel lonely.

Possibly. The, another thing, um, all the factors that we were talking about earlier you can still have that. But another factor can be balance.  If you're able to maintain all of these factors keeping everyone happy, because sometimes you might focus too much on your partner. Then  you forget your friends and they might experience loneliness, which then it can affect you in experiencing loneliness because they might message in WhatsApp, you know, “how come you’re not coming out, you know, what are you doing? Before you used to come out”, then you go like “I’m trying, but you know I got this and that” and then that can build that bridge of loneliness. So that can expand between me and my friends. So, if I did go out, I won’t feel the same cause I feel, I’d still feel lonely because I haven't seen them for a long time and what not.  Same with families like you're not home always. Oh, why you always out. That's where you can experience loneliness as well. Because if the, the house can that can be a home or that can be a four walls and a bed, you can treat it like a hotel or you can treat like a home where you can go in, move that loneliness, talk with family. So even if I had a partner I could treat my house like a hotel, just going in, sleep, eat, get out and spend time with the partner and that can bridge build that loneliness with my family, just like a circle. It’s like, it's hard to say you can have everything, but just about balancing it, knowing when to make, cause everyone has loneliness and you're just filling that need for everyone. And sometimes you forget your own needs, then you end up with burning all bridges and completely being alone.

I: So, it sounds like what you're saying is the good balance. So, like being able to talk to your family, be able to maintain your relationship with your friends. So, seeing them as much as possible, I guess. Um. And then you know, being progressive, more happy with your career, having a partner that understands you I guess, that you can share your personal stuff, having you know some money to, cause you mentioned money also. Right? So, you're saying that a, a good balance of these would be good, because even if you have these, I’m just trying to reflect by what you say. Even if you have everything like a family, friends, career, social partner, that may still make you feel lonely. Because um,

It needs, again, to be fullfilled sometimes, because maybe in a sense of like, if we define the focus, they might not ask you, “oh, how are you feeling or how was your day? Because if you’re with family, all the focus might be on another person and you’re just sitting there just soaking it in, like it’s nothing, nothing. So, yeah.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box to?

No,

I: Thank you. Um, can we talk about a bit for the box three, please?

So, box three is, it's the picture. So, it's trying to draw like a “city view at night time”. And the stick man just looking at the city. You know how you see canary wharf, how you see the buildings at night and I feel like especially at night time I’ve seen that if you look at the times like that, you can sometimes experience loneliness and you’re thinking it’s such a massive world out there, look how many people there are, different religions, type, race and you might still just feel lonely. You just might say that loneliness at night when you just look out for a view thinking “wow, there's so much stuff out that why do I still feel lonely, uh, why do I still feel like this? Why can't I find stuff?” So looking at stuff sometimes can bring that loneliness back or can just be in the back of your mind. Um, so seeing a city for example, you seeing so much people, so much buildings that area and just thinking so much stuff out there but why do I still feel lonely?

I: When you said, “why can't you find stuff?” Can you tell me more about that?

In terms of find stuff like, “why can't I find a partner?” for example, “why can't I have a good friendship?” My friends, “why can't I have a good career”. It always goes back to the box one in terms of the factors. When you're looking at a view, for example, it kind of, your mind just focuses, you just become more, you just going into a bit more deep thinking, and you don’t mind just sitting there and just looking at the fully just a matter, well, I’m, twenty five, for example, and I don't have a partner, I feel so lonely. That's what I feel like. Sometimes, these places can trigger that loneliness. So, it just sometimes we just sit down and look at, go a bit deep thinking and it can just bring it all up in your mind.

I: And how does that make you feel?

I’ve experienced that a few times when you just sit outside and you just see the view and everything like “wow, how time flies” and sometimes you do still feel lonely regardless of what, where you are. So, but I’ve experienced that before, but not as deep as I’m saying it now. Because um, when you just think of it that that issue you just you just think about everything and then you just think about loneliness.

I: Um. So, it sounds like what you're saying is, uh, when you see the buildings, um, or that view, uh, it makes you kind of, you know, reflect on your life.

Yeah, because you never realize how big this earth is, that there's so much architecture, so much views. I mean you just sit down and look at it, you just start thinking that, “wow, it’s a massive world out there, so much stuff that you can experience but you still feel lonely because you’re just thinking about your past experience or past life and then you never really fulfilled that void of loneliness. So, it can, I feel environment can trigger the loneliness.

I: you said you look at your past life and experience…

So, like when I was in uni, for example, you, you didn’t have a partner then you experience loneliness. Um, when you were working, you, you never really had that connection with your employee, your other colleagues, you feel that loneliness or when you're out, sometimes you can experience loneliness when you are out, even if everything's calm in terms of that, your friendships good, but you can still feel loneliness because sometimes like “what am I doing here? I'm not really talking!” or I'm feeling lonely but it’s having an impact on my friendship. So, I might, we might go out but everyone’s checking phone - just texting or just browsing on Instagram, because you are lonely and is having an impact on your friendship, for example, here.

I: Sorry, can you say that last part again in just the last ten, fifteen seconds.

Um, the fact that um, so when you're lonely, it can have an impact on your friendship. So, when you’re out with your mates, that void doesn't get filled with friends, because there’s needs that they can’t fulfill. So, you might be out with your friends, it's all good, your relationship with your friends is good but you might be quiet and you might be introvert - they're not gonna be talking as much as you would usually talk because you're feeling that loneliness.

I: Um, what might be sort of causing those feelings.

It could be the fact going back to box one, not have having a partner may be or not having that connection with your family and it can have a double the effect because you're thinking, “well, if I can’t have that connection with the family, I might not have that connection with my friends. So, it may lead on to being lonely or just have an impact on your friendship.

I: and when you said you when you go into Instagram…

Just sit and just browsing through the explore page, just looking at stuff just time passing. Yeah.

I: um, and how does that make you feel like when you're doing that?

It kind of feels a bit in terms of your mood, just goes down. You’re just, just like needs sometimes that you know that certain people can’t fulfill, but you need another person to fill that void, but you don't have it. Then you just, it’s just a constant cycle that “how do I broke that cycle of loneliness?” But then you just go back to what I was saying earlier about do I take that risk having someone and building that relationship and just breaking up and that loneliness just becomes ten times worse compared to the first time, because at first you were just by yourself. But now you had someone, all these memories create. Now it's gone because of a breakup, that loneliness would just feel much more worse.

I: Sounds like what you're saying is just one holistic perspective. Um, you know, you might there's there seems to be that one thing could be lacking, or one thing may not be as deep and that make you or anyone feel lonely?

Yeah, so one thing or another can lack and can have an effect on loneliness.

I: Um, and how does that make you feel?

And um, like, like, in terms of?

I: let's say for example, I’m just going back to your example like, you know, you might hit like these three, just like friends, family, social. And then you know, in your career, it's not where you want it to be, or vice versa. You have the career, you have the social and family, but you can't really connect with friends or you can't really connect with your family.

Um, it would make you feel a bit bad, like it’d put you low. You feel that loneliness, it’s like, yeah, you have a good career, but career is just nine to five. You can always change, but you don't have that partner and that partner’s for life. And that partner can fill that void, that loneliness  void, whereas your career can’t. Same with family and friends. You can have a great friendship, but they won't fill that loneliness. Whereas your family might can cover or a partner might be able to cover. Yeah, so it does feel bad. You just sometimes experience it, when I was in uni. I was studying a lot, but when I was studying I didn’t really, I wasn’t dating anyone then. So, you just get that loneliness because sometimes, you know, when it comes to exam period, you’re just tired and you just want to talk to someone. But you really don’t talk with the boys because I don't see them as a type of group to talk to you about and that’s when I, when you can experience loneliness, you know, you’re not having there somebody to talk to about, because sometimes friends won’t understand that because they might have not gone to uni, family won’t understand it because they're never experienced uni, they never went to uni, but the partner can understand that because that's where you build a relationship of trust and understanding. So they will understand the fact that he's going for a tough time. Just listen to what he has to say. It just gets it out of an, fill that loneliness.

I: How does it make you feel when people don't understand you.

It feels frustrating at times because they don't know how, how hard it is or how challenging it is sometimes, for example, when to do, because when I when I finished uni and I didn't have a job, I was working part time, but that was just retail, I never took retail seriously because I always said to myself, I want to be um, working fulltime. You have that gap where there was no one else did it, and you had that gap where you don't have a proper job. And that’s when you felt lonely as well because from Monday to Friday, nine to five, there's no one really around because they are either working or studying and that's when feel loneliness and i feel like if I had a job, that could fill that loneliness. And they say, “oh, why don’t you, why not? I do apply and it’s not as easy as you think. That's when families can and they start questioning you. That's when you like “ugh”, why don't you too. It’s just kind of they don't understand how, how it is nowadays or friends. But yeah, you just sometimes feels frustrated at the fact that they don't understand your loneliness, because at the end of the day you know what you want and you know what you need, they won't understand it. So, you just have to go by yourself and you know what's right in a way, what you gotta do to fill that loneliness.

I: Um, um, so yeah, just to kind of conclude on that box, um, so it sounds like, you know, when you sit there and when you watch the buildings or the view, it makes you kind of reflect on your life. And it makes you sort of…

it can trigger loneliness. I feel like cause such a such a massive world out there and you might not have any of those factors and that's how you can ponder on it. And the loneliness can just open up and just flooding and make you, uh, just question yourself.

I: with those factors. You mean like going back into that box: one family's social career, family, partner money, etc.

Yeah.

I: Thank you.  Is there anything else you want to say about box?

No, box 3 is covered.

I: Ok, thank you. Um, can we talk about what you put in the fourth box?

Box 4, I kind of found it quite hard to write it down to draw but I feel that um, I wrote, “self-doubt” and “belief”. So, we believe it’s like, how can I say um, religion, for example, teaches you about oh having a companion may be a partner can fill the needs but, you never experienced it when you're growing up. So maybe by the time you’re 30 and you don't have a partner, but in religion it says you might have you might end up with a partner so you just start questioning your belief in the sense of like so I have a strong belief saying I will find someone. I'm just giving one example, not giving any specific religion. So, you might be a person, they might have a belief of saying like “Oh, you will find someone, for example, by the age of twenty-five or twenty-six” and when you don't you just question your belief and why am I believing in this stuff? Then you just go back to your loneliness just moving away from everything just to be in the um, what's that word? Um, in just in a circle, for example, just everything shut out and that way you feel completely lonely. uh, I feel like believe can have an effect on you, cause sometimes you might not come straight away so that's when people start to question it and they just accept the fact that I’m just gonna be lonely for the rest of my life. So, if your belief is weak and your mindset is weak, not weak, not saying that, not as strong as you think, it would be, that can drive to loneliness. So, the main thing is about you're not gonna get anything handed to you in a plate, you have to go out there, you have to experience it, you have to learn from this stuff to fill that void of loneliness. If not, you just gonna sit in that one zone spot and the loneliness is just gonna creep back in.

I: So, you're saying that sometimes, you know the beliefs that you have been sort of conditioned to know or believe about let's say like, you know, you meet someone by this age of twenty six, twenty seven and if you haven't met that person, the one person, then you start questioning your beliefs.

Yeah, because you might, might have siblings in your family at my house and get married by the age of twenty six or twenty five, then you might have that belief because they’re your oldest siblings so they’re kinda your role models, then you start to, your beliefs are kind of set in a sense that “alright, if they can do it, then I can do it.”, and if you haven't done it by that age, for example, then you question your beliefs and that “oh, all this time I’m thinking that I can do it, it can happen by doing this way”. And then you just go back to your loneliness. And that's when you just shut out everything, but, that's but to really get to fill that void of loneliness, sometimes you have to go the extra mile and doing stuff that you might not be comfortable but you have to do it for experience and, and it changes.

I: So you're saying that basically, if your belief say that you might or if you see brothers and sisters, you know, getting married or meeting someone by the by the age of, let's say, twenty five, twenty six, twenty seven. And if you don't, you get to that age and if you don't meet the right person or to settle down with someone, then you start questioning those beliefs. Then you feel then you've got to kind of go to your own zone and feel lonely.

Yeah, because you've been growing up believing that, your mind is set at the fact that “right at that age, I might find someone I might have partner, I might be married”, but then we passed it and I don't have any one. Then you start questioning yourself. And that's when you start to shut everyone out or just just be more to yourself and just be end up being lonely in that way of thinking like I had this belief it didn't work and look where I am now.

I: And how does that feel being in that sort of…

um, you do have that belief. Um, but I feel like it doesn't affect me in that way, because I know that you have to go out then experience that you have to go through the rough roads to feel that loneliness because um, it's not handed to you on the plate so it's kind of yeah, yes, you have to go out there to fill the loneliness. You have to experience new stuff. Cause sometimes people are not comfortable doing stuff in terms of going out another day doing something different. But you never know that can fill that loneliness void because you’re always just stuck in your ways. You're not gonna meet that person and that loneliness is just gonna stay around. So, you kinda have to go out there, enable to keep that belief there. So, you have to go out the extra mile, you have to do something out of your debt so that loneliness can be filled, everyone's different, and you're not gonna find the exact same person like you, cause everyone has different opinions and beliefs. So yeah, you just have to go out and then to, if you want to fill that loneliness void, you have to go out there and you do stuff sometimes in the company with others, do it for your experience.

I: We say go out there for example, like going out to meet someone.

So, for example, like say, say, if you watch football, you go, you always stay at home, watch it. Sometimes you might just go out and go to the pub and watch it, because that way you build a connection and that loneliness can be filled, because you have a common theme with everyone in that the surroundings watching football, supporting the same team, and that’s when you can build friendship as well. So, you have a common goal and knowing that every Saturday, three o'clock, five o'clock or whatever time, you can go there and that loneliness as can be filled. Um, that can be satisfying enough for one person, “alright at least I have one place to go so I could fill that void of loneliness.”

I: And you also wrote “self-doubt”, can you tell me more.

uh, it’s quite hard. I feel like that time link back to box two in terms of questioning yourself, so, so you start doubting yourself in everything you do and you start thinking negative stuffs, negative stuff about certain things and that can drive you to loneliness as well. So, if you keep on doubting yourself in certain stuff that for example like, if you go out, then you try something, a new piece of clothing. You shouldn't doubt yourself what others might think you should think what you feel like it you like you do it, you wear it and that can fill that loneliness in a sense of like just trying something new. So, if you’re always just doubting yourself in sense of, I don't like to say it, but try, whatever you do, try to be positive about it because you might go out there and you uh, so you might go out there and you might have a negative experience from it because of the self-doubt and that self-doubt can lead to loneliness. And you just feel like I’m not gonna go back to that gym again because I made a fool of myself and that making a fool of yourself is having doubt from the start. So, if you want to do anything new, don't have doubts in it because I feel like, it’s just like say, part of, one thing can lead to another. So, if you have self-doubts, it could turn you into something negative and that negative can push you into loneliness and that loneliness push you to something loneliness and that could be just staying at home for the rest of the day or shutting everyone out. So, it’s just having that belief and removing any doubts about yourself. Yeah.

I: And how does that make you feel when you sometimes question yourself or when you have those self-doubts?

It's like in terms of what you do, you really don't take on board what people said, because it's your life it is your choice. And so like, for example, if I’ve, when I first went out on a date with my partner, I held her bag and I was saying uh, saying about the date to my mates and they were like “ah, ah, why you holding her bag” and they were saying you’re such a w-, in terms of like wet boy, that means like it's just saying “why you being a bit of, what's that word? It’s quite slang what I’m trying to say. Wet boy as in refers to like “why you being such a pansy boy” or “why are you doing that certain stuff?” Well, me, I didn't have doubt, I did for the sake of because I wanted to carry it to get that weight off her. And uh for example, say if I doubted myself saying “why am I actually carrying her bag why do I need to do it? They would just be saying like “ah, you’re such a bitch boy carrying her bag, what's next?” This and that. And if I let that play in my mind and when we go out next time with her, “can you hold my bag?”, “No, I’m not gonna hold it”, cause that just triggers a self-doubt and then that can lead to an argument, for example, or and then what thing can lead to another and breakup and then you're back to square one, loneliness. So, I just really see it simple, I don't care, sometimes you just “I don't care”, I do it because I just like doing it, I just I find it as a gentleman approach. So I never really had self-doubt like that. So if you did that, it's just it's a trigger of something worse coming coming.

I: Um, and when you said questioning yourself in relation to being quiet, tiredness, being stationary, you know your mood and, and being lonely. Can you tell me a little more about that?

Um, it's just the actions you do. So, when you feel a sense of loneliness, it expresses in actions. So you might be, for example, “quiet”, you might be in an area where you are with your family, but you just sit in the sloth and does not saying anything, that can be that can question people saying “why is he so quiet?”, it could might be lonely might be having troubles elsewhere and “tiredness” because I was reading a paper back when I was in uni that when the mood is low, or when they're feeling down or we just have a sense of tiredness cause I think that’s my perspective that they don't have don't they don't really care that “why do I need this energy to go out? So, I might as well stay tired and just slouching. “Stationary”, it’s just sitting in one place throughout the whole day just sitting in front of the computer sitting in bed. So those actions, can be the image of loneliness. And “mood” as well. You might be happy one day, you might be sad  and questioning yourself. Why do I need to get out of bed for? I don’t really have anyone to look forward to seeing or come home to. So these are more actions, I would say. And I feel like these actions can point towards lower, experience of loneliness.

I: And then you mention that self-doubt relates to questioning yourself. Um, so I take it, you know, like questions that might arise, you know, that might doubt oneself would be like, you know, am I good enough or things like that?

Yeah, so you start, when you question yourself, that's when you have doubts in place. So, like I “do I really want to try something new?” “Do I really wanna date this person?” This questioning definitely leads to like “Hmm, let’s cancel the date” or “let’s just not go out” and that definitely leads back to loneliness, so just sitting at home Saturday night, watching in front of the TV and no one there to fill that need or being there.

I: Is there anything else you want to say?

Not, that's it.

I: Thank you. Is there anything else you want to say about anything else?

No. I feel like we covered a lot of it.

I: OK, thank you very much. We move to the second part of this study.

PART 2

I: Um, can we start talking about what you put in box one please?

So, box one is place you socially connected. I feel like, when you out with friends, you are, you're being with friends is like you're taking away from all the other stuff away from you. So you know, just having a good time, you will have that common theme cause you might have grown up together, you can just talk about your day or you just talk about stuff like past holidays you went to or talking about upcoming holidays or talking about football or any other thing. I feel like that helps where you feel, after you feel connected cause you’re in a group of friends, you just have a good time, laugh, just takes your mind away from the negative stuff. Saying playing football as well socially connected – cause I play every Tuesday nights and you're, you're with a group of people that have the same theme as you, you enjoy football, you play football together, and you start talking together talking with one another. You just build that new friendship, because when I started playing on Tuesday I never knew these people before. I knew one person but I knew him from friends. Now, they’re like my friends now if we go meet up on Tuesday to go to Liverpool, we can just talk normally and that's how you feel connected because you got that common goal: playing football. Um, going to mosque is the third one specially during the month of Ramadan. I feel like the month Ramadan, everyone's, the religious level is kind of high because it’s the most holiest month for Muslims and going to mosque you just see everyone, you might see your neighbors, you might see your friends, your family and you are just together praying and for the month of just gaining rewards and you feel that connection of like, it's a strong connection like all of us praying together, it feels really nice. And the forth one is family as well. Family is the main, it’s a very important thing in life as well cause no, there will always be there for you no matter how much you done bad or how much you’re good, they will always be with you and having that connection with your family makes you feel good. And the last point I wrote was “football team”. Quite simple to the second point but in terms of football team it’s like, that's just a set of players you will play with for the next six months every Sunday, and every Wednesday you might go training on Wednesdays and Sunday is your league game, so that twice a week can build that connection and you all have a common to win the league and during that time, you go also, go for the harsh route, you might lose one game, you might have arguments but you’re still together because you’re a team and you look out for one another and that's how you can be connected. Should I go to box two?

I: Just some questions about box one. So, it sounds like what you're saying is you like that you know, common um, common goal that you have with other people. So, for example, when you're out with your friends or when you're in you know the football field or playing football or when you're in the mosque, you know, you're doing things for um, you're doing something that's common among you. And that kind of helps with regards to be connected.

Yeah, I feel like because when you meet someone new, the first thing I’d say that's another thing that um, topic of conversation topic is football that's another one, that’s it. When you start at a new place, for example, you met someone, “Oh, what team do you support?”. They might say “United” “Arsenal” and that’s when you start making a connection that, you know, “oh, I support that team” or you support another team and you just thought, you just talk naturally because if you have one connection you can just talk about endless, you know, not even football like video games, films, series you watch on Netflix and what not. So I feel like connection, if you have a common goal that makes your connection stronger and it can lead you into something greater that you might become much more good friends than you first thought because of that one common goal then it opens up so many routes so it might have started off with the football conversation, then it might become TV series, might come to about dating, “who are you dating?”, education. So, it just opens up so many routes if you have that one connection with that person, even though it doesn’t have to be with a partner, it could be with friends, colleagues, family.

I: So, having that sort of common goal can be a kick off start.

It can kick off to something greater potentially. And that can fill that loneliness void. Because sometimes you might watch a Netflix series and no one watches it. Sometimes you feel lonely in the sense of like you have no one to talk to because when you watch a really good episode you kind of want to get it out because you want to hear that another person's opinion and you start seeing the person that watches the same series, you can talk with each other and it kind of fills that loneliness.

I: It sounds like, yeah, having that sort of um, something that both parties, all parties do, then, because you can talk about it, you know, because you can share, you know, your thoughts can make you feel more socially connected.

Yeah

I: Thank you. Is there anything else you want to say about box one?

No, that that's covered.

I: Sure. Um, we can move to box two, if you like.

So, the box two is place where you most feel lonely so the first one or the first day at work. So when I started my career, and then it just, It's a very different environment to retail, whereas in retail, you started with the people in similar ages, you have similar background because working in retail most of them are studying, an at that time I was studying so you kinda had that common goal already were both studying “oh, what you studying?” “what uni?”, “When is your graduation?”, “what year you’re in?” So, you build that common goal, in it? Whereas in an office environment, It's much more different. You got people, it might be grown up with kids or there might be a higher in the in the department in terms of the job level. It's quite daunting at first, because you never experienced that environment. And you’re just sitting on the desk and they’re like showing you here and then, and just look around and just see people working. Who do I talk to? What do I really, how to approach them? Because I don't know how they are, and whereas in the retail it’s simple cause you all had that common goal of students, whereas here I'm a fresh graduate and where there is another person that's been there for ten years, for example. So, it's quite hard to integrate at first. But that's where you feel lonely. That first day at work. And when you're sitting at a break, for example, uh, that you just go in the canteen or the staff room and just sit and feel like “who do I like talk to you?” or just feel that loneliness, because there's no one there around. Uh, and then the second one is university.

I: Just before we go onto the second, I just wanted to ask um, so, um, so what you're saying is, you know, uh, because you suddenly had that shift where you previously, you know you have people who came from similar, um, educational background as you, you would be able to talk to them have similar conversations, and because suddenly there was a shift, um, and then you basically had colleagues who are quite different to you, like some were working, some um, have been here for a long time, some had children because of that, you know, difference of dynamic relationship, then that kind of made you to kind of be more lonely.

Yeah, in that sense, because um, like, like retail when there's a guy who’s the same age as me, and if there’s a pretty girl walking about we’re like “oh, check out that girl”, for example, and  both, like that common, whereas if I was in an office environment and a nice girl walked by and this guy's married or older, much more older, I wouldn’t really say that because I don’t feel comfortable because I don't just don't see that. So, it’s the small stuff that kind of drive you to loneliness but I feel like as your days go by, months go by, then it feels a bit more better. But in terms of the way you feel most meaning that that first day at work, first week or first week or two that’s when you feel loneliness but slowly that loneliness disappears. So, it's just the dynamics of how it is at a workplace. But, sometimes, you might not even be comfortable because you never really had experience of doing it in that profession and you feel like you might have been stuck, so you might have, I had that in my age where I’m working. We had different software that we used and now completely puzzled by it. They give an induction but I feel like that induction is all bullshit because they just completely go through everything very quick and fast. And then when it comes to me doing them, “shit, what do I do?” I just start thinking that, I don't wanna ask anyone because I just feel a bit nervous and that's when you feel lonely and you’re given this pile of work, but you don't know what to do, you feel lonely but you don't have anyone to talk to and say “excuse me, can I have help, can you help me with this?”, and you do ask but you don't know who to ask because you don't know the person how they are. Sometimes the person is alright with helping sometimes they can be a bit of a prick. Let's be real they can be a bit a prick and don't wanna help you. So that's why you can feel loneliness as well.

I: And how did that make you feel being in that sort of first week, first month, or the..

First week or two I didn’t enjoy it to be honest. I kind of hated it, you know, not hated it but this is bullshit but “I'm new here. You don't have the understanding. This is my first time working here in the office environment. And yet you didn't really adjust to me.” So, they kind of expect you to do things which you should all be known doing. I’m thinking like “hang on a minute, that's impossible. How can I work this? I just worked here a week and you’re expecting me to do this stuff that I never learned. So, at first I felt lonely, I feel like “uufff”. Well, luckily, I had colleagues that started at the same time as me so it’s kind of filling that void. But in terms of the workload, that's when you feel the loneliness of not being able to do. And who do I ask for help? Because managers might be busy. You don't know the college really like that.

I: Who and would you have as a second option

Uh, “university”. So I went to University of Greenwich and my campus was Eltham. Um, so that's proper southeast deep in England. And I’ll say one thing about that area is it’s predominantly British white people and I felt like in terms of there was racism in that campus cause Karachi site was nice because it was mixed and then you got Avery Hill, that's where I was. And that was in Eltham. And to get to Eltham with public transport is one of the hardest routes ever. You got the shuttle bus to go from uni, but sometimes if you miss it you have to take that route. And I feel like that's the place where you feel the most lonely, especially going to uni in Eltham cause it’s predominantly British White people and me and my mates were the only, there was four Asian boys that started that was doing the same course as me. And we were all altogether like we came from college and went straight, applied there. And, and in that class, say there was 60 students I’d say three black people, boys, one black girl, five Asians, Bengalis, one Moroccan and the rest were British White and socially wise, I didn't, we didn't get along with, we didn't get along with any of them. You just more or less. You're right. That's it. And that’s very small talk. You know how people say, “oh, you’re a student mate, your uni mates will be your mates for life”. That didn't happen with us, with me because they never really got, they never would understand, they are like “ah, where are you from?” I’m like “oh, Stratford”, “where is that?”. I’m like “really?”, “Stratford, Westfield”, like they don’t know that stuff, they saw us as aliens cause they never saw brown people in their lives. And they first thought we was Indians. “No, we’re actually Bengalis”. Bengalis, they thought we were Indians. And that’s where I felt very lonely like three years being in a place where it’s predominantly White, that area was known for racism attacks Eltham, especially when you got on the bus, people just looked at you like you’re aliens from another planet or something. “Wow, we’re just the same people but we’re just brown skin.” I feel like that's why, where you feel lonely and the fact that we stood with those students to be able to get along them socially, you have to adapt to their lifestyle, which is going out as students clubbing and drinking. And that's not that's not what I do. That's not my thing, so I was not gonna, peer, being peer pressured just to be accepted by the by going to the student union nights or going to the bar after uni, um like “nah”, I'm sticking my ways. No, that's how you feel lonely, cause sometimes your other mates might not come, it might just be you alone. And you don't have someone to talk about that because I just felt like there were just white color racism in the area. It was just predominantly, I’d say ninety nine percent white British people. Um, and then I didn't really like it in that campus. Yeah. So that's where you experience loneliness a lot, because you're basically in another environment and your homes, God knows how far away and if I was in Queen Marry, for example, I know I’d fit in right way, because everyone is mixed. You got so many students from different race but whereas my campus, it was just white people who pure British white people. And that's why I experienced loneliness.

I: How did that make you feel?

Annoyed at the same time, it’s like It’s funny how media says “oh these people don't integrate with the British, but yet it’s funny how they don’t know certain stuff like where is East London,  where Stratford is, where is all of this areas but I still knew some of their stuff, but they didn't know some of our stuff so I felt like “how is that fair?” Does that make sense? You expect me to know their stuff, be cultured, but they don't even know our own culture. So, the bit I, I didn't really it didn't really affect me that much. I still got on with my education. I still do. I just stuck to my course. Well, friends, four of us Asians, we were just stuck together, and yeah, it’s lonely at first, but then you just accept it and just do my thing and just go.

I: And what is your next one?

Uh, so “failed test exams”. So that can be a big lonely, person can experience loneliness, it’s the failing exam especially during like GCSE times, if you have a test in the hall, then you collect, for example, your results paper, and you just see everyone smiling, cheering, and you're just there looking at like, that's where you feel loneliness there, like there's no one there. Even if another person's failed, you don't really care about it, because that's what your life even that's “oh you failed?”, “I failed too.” I don't care. This is my life that’s when you feel loneliness. So if you fail a test, driving exams, any other forms of methods of exams -you feel loneliness because it's just you're just by yourself because that's your life, that’s your education. That's your qualification. They won’t understand that because they’ve already got their qualifications so that’s where you can feel loneliness like you’re just by yourself - what do you do? How do I get past this loneliness?  It's tough.

I: Is there any place in your neighborhood that you feel the most socially lonely?

In this area? I don’t know, this area is very diverse. I used to live in Brick Lane first. Then when I was about fifteen, I moved to Bow - at first you felt socially lonely because I’m moved to completely new environment where all my friends used to live in that Brick Lane area and for me to go meet them I had to take the bus. And sometimes I didn't feel comfortable at first cause I didn't really know the area.

And when we first moved in here, um, it was quite lonely because I just stayed at home most of the time being because I didn't have anyone there. So you felt socially lonely. In fact that that's another point I could write  “moving to a new area”.

I: Yeah. So, there's is there a place here, right in this neighborhood that you live, um, anywhere, like in particular, that you feel you feel isolated, you feel…

Not really. No, because in, I feel like going back to our previous point about the city and the views, in this areas, there's people around you constantly, to experience that loneliness looking at the view you have to be isolated by yourself but in this area, no I haven't experienced it.

I: Okay, well, thank you very much. Is there anything else you want to say?

No, that's it.

I: Okay, thank you very much. I'm gonna pause the recording now.
