---
source_filename: Interview 41 - Male, 18, B&D (parts 1 & 2).docx
interview_number: 41
gender: Male
age: 18
borough: Barking & Dagenham
parts_hint: Part 1 & 2
---

# Transcript
Interview 41 - Male, 18, B&D

I:Interviewer

R: Respondent

I: Can we start by talking about what you put in box one please?

R: I’ve put a scene, it represent the, no matter how many are surrounded by, you can never really feel not lonely because no one is the same as you so you will always be different so no matter you do whether you’re best mates with these people, you’re always going to feel some kind of loneliness. And that’s why I put loads of people and one person on their own.

I: So, it sounds like what you are saying is you could be in a large crowd of people you could be with anybody even though you are not physically alone, but you can still feel alone.

R: Yes mental loneliness is a very different to physical loneliness cause mentally you could be on your own you could be thinking about something that no one knows about you and it's very perplexing to think that no matter how many people you have around you, you could never truly feel together, you could never feel like you aren’t alone. Its presence is always there.

I: So um, when you say that you know you could be mentally alone, can you tell me more about that?

R: Yes, so being mentally alone is obviously very different from being physically alone, you have no one around you. Mentally alone is where you have something in your head that won’t let you be calm, it wont let you sort of notice the people around you, it wants you to be alone, it wants you to stay on your own and I can’t explain what it is but its always there, it’s persistence. Some people learn to ignore it, some people have it consume them and people who consume them, they get depression, they get sad, they get all of that. People that give it up, they have calm, they’re nice, they’re chill but it’s always there for everyone and it’ll never go away no matter how hard you try but you can ignore it to a certain degree.

I: So you are saying that basically those who fall into depression or anxiety and so on, they are not able to deal with this mentally? Or vice versa.

R: Well, yeah, in a way, so people with depression, of course I don’t know everyone’s situation but most people’s depression it’s because inside of them they feel like they are alone they don’t know why, they don’t know, like, it could be caused by anything but a lot of people feel lonely and they don’t know it so they try and replace it with some stuff like drugs or whatever which makes it worse so you feel more lonely, you feel more isolated and it never really goes away, you just learn to live with it. That’s what I think.

I: And this person kind of, so this person is on their own and these people are together or are you …

R: Yes, the person is isolated but not physically because he has the group of people here. It’s more mentally. He’s on his own, in his own little world.

I: And how does that make him feel?

R: Um, of course, the other people, his friends would be encouraging him, be - try and make him happy but this feeling in your head will always drag you back into the darkness, it will never let you be calm and happy for a long period of time. You could get some enjoyment but then you’ll always be dragged back to this little corner of your brain that’s telling you, ‘you are alone, no one likes you, bla, bla, bla’.

I: So, you are saying that basically there is that voice in someone’s head or anyone, your head or whoever, anybody, that kind of tells them that you know, negative things…

R: Yes.

I: That you are alone and people doing like you and this and that.

R:The little devil on the shoulder.

I: Yeah, when you said that there is a devil on your shoulder, can you tell me more?

R: Well, I said devil on your shoulder rest more used in like jokes and say comics or something like that where it’s like ‘oh you have an angel and a devil but when it really, you get to the core of it, you do have an angel which is your brain telling you the good stuff and then you have the devil which is your subconscious telling you what can go wrong making you anxious, making you scared, making you worried and no matter what you really do, like I said, that’s always gonna be there. You can learn to block it out but you always hear it in times of needs, it’ll be stronger than ever and you just gotta, kind of learn to like live it, live with it or ignore it, it’s up to you but it will always be there.

I: Hmm. Yeah, so, I guess general speaking what I understand from this box 1, you could be with people and yet you could still feel alone because people…

R: Loneliness isn’t determined by who you’re with, it is determined by how you feel at that point in time. You can be with your mom, you can be with your entire family, you could be with your loved one, you could be with your wife who you love very much and still feel lonely in your own heart. You won’t know why but it’s always there, and it doesn’t  matter who you’re with, someone can, you can be surrounded by millions of people who all know you and you can still feel isolated and alone because you are different, you are always going to be different and there’s no way to really change that so you can never relate to someone a hundred percent, you can never really be not lonely.

I: When you say different can you tell me more about that?

R: Everyone’s unique when it comes to physical or mental. Even twins are mentally different. One twin can be the happiest, the lucky person in the world and the other one is miserable, depressed, kind of downer but it’s, no one has the same state of mind, no one is ever going to be the same mentally, one, you could get two people who have the exact same mental situation and make them into two people and then instantly this one will have a different mental situation. This one because they’re seeing different things, this one can see a happy family, this one can see like a sad family and then this one is depressed - has mentally problem again and this one keeps going on that path. The split second is all it takes for your mental situation to change. You could be the happiest person in the world and then one thing happens to you and it’s all gone. That’s why I think no matter where you are, who you with, what are you doing you always have  loneliness in the back of your head.

I: So, you are saying that you could feel lonely because you may be different to other people?!

R: Yes, you never truly fit in no matter how much anyone makes you feel like you’re meant to be there, there is always something nagging at you saying ‘you are different’, ‘you’re not like this guy, look he is handsome you are not’, its like there is always something different that your mind’s going to play up and make you feel either bad or happy and if you feel happy then you’re going to feel bad because you are a better than that person, do you know what I mean? so you never going to feel calm with yourself, you’re always going to be in a state of chaos.

I: So, you are saying that your brain constantly telling you that you know, this person is better than you or you’re better than that person and try harder, this person is more handsome than you…

R: Uhum. Your brain, over time, it’s a natural instinct, your brain learns to judge situations as soon as you see them because when, way back when we were caving and stuff would see a situation to the tiger. What would you do? You run or you fight. Yeah, your brain sees someone is better looking than you. You also, your brain is thinking: what do I do? Do I be nice and be the nice guy or do I be mean and try to get him to leave? Yeah, your brain automatically judges anyone. You can see a little girl and automatically judge her. And you are not doing it consciously, your subconscious does it, you can see a homeless dude and then your brain automatically assumed that he did something wrong to be there but it could be that he was kicked out, he had bad situations, nothing to do with him. Your brain wants to put others down to make you feel better but your, that’s your coping mechanism  because in this world you see so much stuff that your brain’s like ‘no I’m better than this’ so see that guy, he’s worse than me, he’s worse than me she is worse than me and your brain tries to do that but all that it does in the end is, make you feel like you can’t relate to those people cause your brain’s automatically judged them and that makes you feel lonely, that makes you feel isolated, it makes you feel like you can’t build a relationship.

I: So, sounds like what you are saying is that you were hard wired to make judgments of situations and because of this judgements then one might experience a sense of loneliness?

R: Definitely. So, loneliness is the survival instinct. Your brain will rather feel lonely than scared so your brain automatically feels lonely so that you, I used to it, because if you are used to being lonely then you could remove yourself from the situation where you have friends and family and one person who's looking to hurt you, you could happily remove yourself and being lonely because your brain’s  trained you to be like that so you won’t be lonely and then stop feeling sad because you are lonely, your brain will tell you, you are lonely but you are safe and that’s why your brain wants you to be lonely all the time so then you don’t really see it as a bad thing.

I: So, you are saying that basically, I’m just trying to reflect back. So, you are saying that basically your brain wants you to be lonely?

R: So that when you have to isolate yourself, your emotions don’t take a turn for the worst. Your brain is basically training you so if you are ever in a situation where you need to be lonely, you can do it without causing too much mental chaos. Pretty much yeah.

I: How you feel about that?

R: Well, I feel like that’s the thing in the past, we don’t really need them anymore. There should, our brain kind of get rid of that thought process because being lonely leads to bad decisions, leads to negative things in your life and if your brain’s training you to be lonely, it’s training you to make bad decisions. So, really, your brain should try and do the opposite and try and make you feel happy, try and make you feel loved so that when you are all loved you know what to do, you don’t cripple, you don’t cease up or freeze, so yea, it’s  kind of a useless thing that we do to automatically feel lonely.

I: Yes, so sounds like what you are saying is, we, our brain wants us to be lonely to keep us safe so that in case, so that in the event that we actually do experience loneliness and we are prepared for that.

R: Yeah, it’s trying to train us for the worst just like fire of light, it’s trying to train us to either run or do what needs to be done so it’s just kind of prepare you for the worst. Your brain does that all the time and kind of obsolete it at this point.

I: And it does that by judging the situations, by judging other people to try to...

R: Try to see if the good characters or bad characters, trying to judge them beforehand so that your brain can automatically tell ‘do we need to run or do we need to fight?’, ‘do we need to stay or do we need to leave? It just trying to assess the situation before you even enter the room so you know what you have to do and most of the time it doesn’t work but when it does work it works but when it doesn’t work it usually fails and then you miss judge a situation which can cause more mental confusion, which then leads to loneliness, sadness.

I: And how does that does you make you feel being sort of influenced by that aspect of your brain that let’s say for example you see someone, and you might think oh this person is more handsome than me? How does that make you feel being in that situation?

R: It's depressing to be honest that your brain can never, not just your brain but you can never wait. You can never take a minute to learn who someone is and what they have  done, your brain automatically goes ‘no, they’re bad, that person is bad don’t socialise with them, don’t look at them, don’t talk to them’, but that’s not you making that mental  decision, it’s your brain. It’s kind of depressing cause you never meet certain people  just because they look shady, they look like they look a bit scary, they look a bit depressed, yeah, your brain will automatically say ‘we don’t need that’ but you could get  to know them they could be the happiest person you have ever met so it’s kind of down heartening and depressingly, it kind of stops you from meeting certain people even though you don’t know who these people are, your brain automatically assumes that ‘no, we don’t want them!’ So, it’s kind of depressing. I don’t know, a route is kind of  depressing, the thought that you can be in a massive group of people when no, no one be depressed, be lonely, cause your brain wants you to, it’s down heartening so that’s how your mind works.

I: So, you could be with all of your friends but then you would be feeling lonely sometimes.

R: Yeah, it’s the natural reaction cause your brain is thinking, it’s too good to be true, we have too many people around us, something is gonna happen, get ready, you are lonely now, you are ready for what’s gonna happen, even though your brain’s miss judging the situation. It does it anyway. No matter what you do it’s always going to do that and it’s a primal reaction, your brain thinks ‘be lonely, you are safer on your own’.

I: And what would your brain assume that would be the negative outcome in the event that you did stay with those people or friends?

R: It could be anything. Your brain can be thinking that this is such a big group of people. It goes way back to when you were surviving in the large. Bigger groups would get targeted so your brain is like ‘oh, this is a big group, lets isolate myself because I can run faster, I can hide on my own because I don’t have a group slowing me down, I don’t have to hide with the group, I’m on my own, I’m safer and it’s kind of, because a group can defend you, if you are on your own you can’t be defended and you never know what’s really going to happen but your brain automatically goes ‘yeah, you are safer on your own, run!’ Or, ‘leave and you’ll probably, you don’t want to leave so your brain makes you feel lonely so that you kind of wanna go. It’s kind of trying to force you to leave but, yeah.

I: How does that make you feel?

R: Not good, haha [laughing]. It makes you feel like you don’t really have a choice of what you do cause no matter what you do, your subconscious is always going to do something to affect that decision. You could decide to lay in your bed and your subconscious makes you think ‘ah that’s bad you should get up, you should do this or  you should, you do that stuff and your brain is like ‘no, you need more sleep, go to bed’. Your subconscious is always contradicting your conscious mind because it feels you made that decision, what if this one better? And you are always trying to get the upper hand, but you never really can.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box 1?

R: Oh no, haha [laughing].

I: Thank you.

I: Can we talk about what you put in box 2, please?

R: Oh, yeah, this one is a lot shorter. This one is kinda the opposite of this [referring to the new box versus the old one]. You can be perfectly normal mentally and a lack of human contact will send you insane. It’s been shown that if you go up Mount Everest on your own, there’s a 50% chance of you not coming down due to mental situation, cause you’re up there for so long your brain thinks ‘if I go back down there, these people, I don’t want to be around people, and you are used to this. That goes back to the loneliness where your brain wants to be alone. Yeah, it’s the complete opposite of the other one, so, because you have been alone for so long your brain doesn’t want you to go back it will keep telling you the wrong things so that you don’t go back and that’s why half of the people that go up the Everest are trained to go places like that, die, because they think it’s safer to be up heel on your own than it is to go down and (pee? - 19:35) on people but going back to the word contact, a lack of human contact will send you insane because you become too lonely so that’s why say Cast Away [the movie] is a really good example where he takes the coconut or the bowl and turns it into a (wilson? - 19:56) because having something, any contact, makes you feel better, so when you are on your own you start to talk to yourself  you start to make things up, that’s why when kids are on their own in the bedroom and night, they may talk to an imaginary friends cause they want something to talk to, to touch, to be with and I don’t, sort of experience it as much in day to day life although they do, say an office job during the office you don’t really get any kindness so happiness and warmness from an office job cause you’re just sitting there, you wanna continue with doing your job, nothing else but if you are home with your wife, your kids, you feel a little less depressed than that because you have human contact you have any type of physical, mental, verbal contact.  You can be talking to a rock and you would feel better, say you could be Cast Away and then you start singing and dancing and because it makes you feel that little bit happier and you have some contact to the outside world, you feel less lonely, less depressed, less alone, just any type of contact helps.

I: So sounds like what you are saying is contact is crucial for human survival?

Definitely, that’s why we adopted trying to make pets cause obviously our fears tell us the animals are scary, animals are bad but at some point humans, like, I need something, I need a friend, I need contact so they started to tame wolves, tame animals, tame cats, tame dogs and that was purely to have contact. Those are people who didn’t have a wife or kids, they needed that contact or they go insane, like, people like Picasso and Van Gogh, like he straight cut his ear off because he was alone and lonely and he started seeing stuff, he started seeing a monster so that his brain could have contact with that monster and so he go crazy, he cut off his ear, he was isolated for too long and so that’s yes human contact or any type of contact, it’s stomping loneliness for a short amount of time and makes you feel needed.

I:When you say it makes you feel needed can you tell me more about that?

R: Yes, humans have an automatical want to be needed. People do jobs for money but also because they want to be needed. If you, if someone was to ask you ‘I need your help’ and you didn’t want to do anything that day and they said ‘ah, I need your help’,  you’d probably help them because that’s someone needing you. I want to be needed is a basic human instinct. If you are not needed then what is your purpose? What are you here for? It’s just something to have an excuse to why you’re alive, what is life? Kind of thing.

I: And how does that make you feel when you have lack of social contact?

R: I don’t say I be talking from experience cause I’m always in contact with anyone or at one point in time but if I was to be alone, when I’m alone, like, when I’m going to bed or that and I’ve turned my phone off, turned everything off, I start to think very depressing thoughts like stuff like what am I gonna do when my mom dies? Stuff like that. I’m going to be alone, am I going to die alone, stuff like that and that’s purely because no one is around, you have no human contacts. You don’t have any contact with anyone that’s why you start seeing stuff so you’d be laying in bed, you thinking, expressing thoughts and you see something and then your brain forgets about all those thoughts and that’s some kind of contacts and it completely wipes all the bad thoughts in your head for a short amount of time and it’s quite depressing that we need human contact but it’s also quite inspiring because it shows that humans couldn’t live without each other we couldn’t be alone for a long period of time because we lose our minds, we become less than human, we’d lose our ability to function properly. It’s ingrained in our heads that having someone is better than having no one that’s why you get lonely, that’s why you get depressed and that’s why you get angry most of the time, sometimes, because there is no one to comfort you, no one to hold your hand,no one to hug you, no one to sit down and talk with you. Its, we crave human or any contact because it makes us feel better as people.

I: When you say that when you are in bed about to go to sleep you turn all your phone off that’s when you kind of start feeling or start having negative thoughts because when you turn off, it sounds like you shut yourself from social life.

R: Isolate yourself, yeah. Yeah, I feel like that’s more a me thing because I have ADHD, I have an overactive imagination, I think a lot, my brain never shuts off,  I’ve been told by many doctors that I need to shut my head off, I need to just cut myself far from the world and that’s because even when I go to sleep or try my brain just keeps going and because I have nothing to think about my brain starts thinking the worst, it’s like, what of this happens? What if this person dies? What if all of this and the only way I can stop that from happening is by going on my phone, again contacts - with anything, just doing something to keep your mind active, it helps but it will never stop it. Recently it’s got better because a while back we had a scare with someone in the family with cancer and that’s what’s started it all. I’d be going to sleep and I’d be like what if they die, what do I do? What if they die? Like, that was my constant thought and I’d be like up in the middle of the night crying and stuff... and... till I got to my phone, I’d go on whatever. I’d try and distract myself so I wouldn’t think that but it’s started to come down more recently but its still there, it’s always going to be there and I could never get rid of that thought.

I: How does that make you feel?

Scared. I can never really change the way I think because I could be an old man and I’d still be thinking ‘what if they were still alive? What if, like I’d be always ‘what if’, you never ask why? Sometimes you do but never really, you always ask ‘what if?’ and you could never know that answer but your brain wants to know so you keep asking, it’ll never go away until you get that answer, until that person dies or that thing happens and then you’ll be thinking ‘what if I did it differently?’. You can never answer a ‘what if’ question and that’s kind of depressing but also kind of, I don’t know, just depressingly that you can never really get rid of that trail of thought.

R: So, sounds like, it seems to me that you’re bothered by your thought?

Oh, all the time. Yeah, no, it’s a recurring thing. I don’t really wanna see a counselor or something like then I have to bring it up, then I have to talk about it, then I have to tell why I feel like that and it makes it worse cause then I start thinking about it, then it gets worse and then you either get prescribed tablets or anti depressions or this and you’re just doping yourself up  to forget and that’s no better than drinking to forget or doing drugs to forget, it’s the same kind of thing, they’re just prescribed so the best thing to do is just obviously this isn’t me saying ‘oh if you hear, do this’ but it’s just think positive, if you start getting depressing thoughts, think, if you think what if they die and think what if they don’t die, what if they live and I die before them, what if this happens, what if good stuff happens, that’s the best way, replace the bad word questions with good ones and then you’ll be hoping or looking for that good answer instead of looking for the bad one and that help a little.

I: And it sounds to me that you know you have these what if questions, what if this person dies, what if that person dies and is that because you don’t want to be lonely?

R: Definitely. You don’t want to lose that person, that person is your contact, that person is your way to feel together with someone and if they go then you are gonna feel alone, you are not gonna have anyone, that’s why when you mourn, you try and isolate yourself, that’s your brain telling you ‘become lonely, it’s the only way to forget’. Your brain wants you to become lonely so it doesn’t affect you as badly, but it always will, you can never lessen the effects of loss, the best way to do it is just to go through the stages, I can’t remember the stages but just go through the stages of loss and remember them fondly, that’s all you can really do.

I: Sounds like you worry a lot also.

R: Yeah, I worry all the time. When I first had my God daughter come to where I live, I always had, I walked around the house and I’d see a sharp object on the side and then in my head I’d see that object falling and hurting and so I’d walk around my house and I slowly tear up any object that could hurt her and I did this when I was young but I don’t do it anymore because I don’t worry about that now because I know if something happens, it happens you can’t really predict the future so you just have to take it and stride but when I was younger that was a real issue, that me up at night looking around the house, I’d hear a cough and I’d go see if that person is okay, I’d hear a bang and I’d go outside and look to see if let’s say a cat was hurt or something like that, it was stupid but it was the way I coped with depression, it was.

I: So what was the last part before the depression you mentioned?

R: It was worrying about everything - going outside, finding out if, like, hearing a bang outside and going to check if it was one of my pets that had been hurt or something like that and that wasn’t a good way to think so I changed it, I stopped thinking about that, I came up with the mindset that if something happens it happens, it happened not for a reason, it just happened, take it and stride, keep going, someone falls off a ladder, call an ambulance, you can’t go back in time and grab that person, you can never reverse something that’s happened, so just keep going till you stride, keep living, really, and try and yeah, so just trying to get on with it.

I: And how does that make you feel when you’re in that situation where you feel like you’re worrying all the time and thinking and asking the ‘what ifs’?

R: It’s, the best way to describe it is disheartening cause you feel like you can never do anything without worrying, you can never, just, say go out and do something, you have to worry ‘what’d happen if I go out and do that?’, you have to think what are these people gonna think if I do that and it’s, it’s really a shrane mentally, trying to please everyone and then trying to please yourself afterwards because it’s so many things to do, so little time to  do it, your brain wants to do this and that and that and that but your body can only do that so to make it short, worrying all the time, it just makes you feel worse, it makes you feel like you don’t know what you’re doing, you can’t ever just do something because your mind has two different opinions and they’re always fighting and no matter what you do one side of your head is gonna say ‘oh, this is great idea’ and the other side is gonna say ‘yeah, but you’re walking on the street, you can get stabbed’. Even though it’s like a one in a million thing that could happen your brain still worries about that and you could never stop that which is, yeah, it’s kind of depressing when you think about it.

I: When you said that you try to please everybody before you please yourself, can you tell me more about that?

R: Um, that’s just a thing that you do normally unless you, the people you care about, you want them to be happy and most of the time you put them before yourself, that’s, most people are selfless, some people are selfish but it’s a very select few and when you’re selfless you don’t really think of yourself first, you could be hungry and you see your friend is hungry and you feed your friend and you then you think about yourself afterwards and that’s, it’s negative for most time of your mental and physical health but it makes you feel better, it makes you feel like you’re a better person so it makes you feel better about yourself, it makes you feel happy even though it may be affecting you mentally and physically it gives a short euphoria where you feel like you’re a good person, you did that, you helped your friend before you helped yourself and it’s, it’s really confusing how your body even though you’re suffering, your mind wants you to stop someone else’ suffering before yourself, there’s no real self preservation when it comes to something like that, you either forget what your brain is telling you and help yourself or you listen to yourself and in both accounts, if you help yourself, sure you’re helping yourself but it makes you feel worse in the end, if you helped someone else sure you’re helping someone else but it makes your body feel worse in the end so it’s a that lose:lose situation. You can never really break that sort of cycle.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box 2?

R: No.

I:Thank you.

R: I gotta think about this [referring to box 3].

I: What did you write there ‘personality’ in box 3.

R: Yeah. Um, when it comes to personality, it’s more really, with personality, of course everyone has their own so one person could be angry and abrupt for no reason but that’s their personality, they maybe the nicest guy you’ve met but they’re abrupt because that’s the way they were brought up and when you think about someone, when you see someone you don’t think ‘oh, is that their personality?’, ‘oh, is that what they are?’, you automatically assume ‘oh, they’re abrupt, oh, they’re a bad person, they’re not nice’, so this one is really about assumptions and not getting know the people before judging them. You can never judge someone twice because your brain already has that image of what they are imprinted in your head you can never get rid of that so if you judge someone negatively, sure you can be their friend but eventually your friendship is gonna fall apart because you still have that negative image and when it comes to personality sure you can change your personality but it’s always gonna be there, always, and most of the time your personality is what moves you away from people because your personalities clash and when they clash you don’t wanna be with them, which makes you feel, it always comes back to being lonely, no matter what you do, at some point in life you’re going to feel lonely. You can have the most happy and cheerful personality possible and you still be lonely. You could surround yourself with happy, wholesome, nicest people you’ve ever met and because your personality is depressed, it’s, it’s different, it’s not the same as them, you’ll be lonely unless you could find somebody with exact same personality as you, it’s like the same sort of, like, humor, like the same all of that, you gonna be lonely. You could have a wife, you could have kids, you still be lonely, of course you have the contacts, human contact but your personalities aren’t the same, you’re always gonna get angry, you’re always gonna get lonely, you’re always gonna get sad, happy on occasion but your personality will always mix up situations you’re in. you could be just sitting there, eating your lunch and then you see someone walk past, your personality will be to say ‘oh, hi’, but then their personality could be like just to ignore you, which them makes you feel worse, it makes you feel ‘oh, why do I always say hi to people?’ like, personality affects your emotions very heavily and it’s usually negative, on odd occasions you can have a personality that makes you feel happy all the time but most of the time that’s not it, that’s not how humans mentally work and they, as I said before your brain wants you to feel all the negative stuff so that you’re used to it, so your personality will automatically try and make you feel lonely so that you will grow, part of your personality, so that you can survive being lonely. Most people can't do that but on a very occasion they can and I haven’t been able to [laughing] and yeah, your personality will change how you act around other people, it’d change how people see you, it’d change people’s perceptions of you, it’d change how you see yourself and most of the time it’d make you feel isolated, it’d make you feel lonely, it’d make you feel like you’re the only one that this is happening to. Why me, kind of thing and you’re alone, so, yeah.

I: When you say, like, ‘why me?’, can you tell me more?

R: Why me, it’s, humans do it a lot, in a way that they could be two people and this bad thing happens to both of them and this guy will say ‘oh, why me? Why did it happen to me?’ and then this guy would be like ‘oh, I’m happy it happened to me and not someone else’ and that’s really, these two people have vast different personalities so one person will go ‘ah, why me, why can’t this happen to you?’ like, if someone was to get cancer, ‘why me? It’s supposed to be you, it should have been you!’ that’s very negative, that’s, that’s you trying to push it on to someone else and whereas the guy who said ‘oh, thank God it was me and not someone else’ that’s him trying to take all the badness and kind of keep it to himself so that no one else gets it, he’s very selfless. There was a woman who, can’t remember her name but she got cancer and everyone in her family was saying ‘ah, why you?, why not someone else?’ and the woman said literally, said out loud, it was on the news, ‘I’m happy it was me. If it was anyone I’d be sad for them but me, I’m happy because instead of me it could have been a kid that got cancer, it could have been a pregnant woman, it could have been anyone but it was me’ and she set up a charity, she set up all of it to try and help people with cancer so they stop saying ‘why me?’ and start saying ‘thank God, it was me, thank God my children didn’t get cancer, thank God my mom didn’t get cancer’ and I think they raised a couple of million for cancer awareness and support and you know, that was just, I saw that on the news and it was great story but um, that links back to the ‘why me?’. If you said ‘Thank God it was me!’, people would look at you better, they look at you like you’re a good person but inside you’re still lonely because now you’re seen as a better person so now you can’t relate to people even more and it drives a wedge between you and your family, your loved ones, that contact that you had, it’s savet (savet? 42:49) and you start to feel more depressing thoughts, more lonely, more isolated, more inside your subconscious is saying ‘why me?’ on the outside you’re showing a facade to try and show that ‘yeah, I’m happy, I’m not sad that I’ve got cancer’, kind of thing but you’re always, it always comes back to the fact that no matter what you do you’re always going to have that negative ‘why me?’, ‘why am I lonely?’, ‘why am I depressed?’, ‘why am I sad?’, ‘why did this happen to me?’, ‘why not you?’ kind of thought and you maybe able to hide it, you maybe able to think a different way but that will always be there no matter what your personality is, you could the nice person, worse person, you’ll always have that devil on your shoulder that’s telling you that person should have got it instead, it shouldn’t have been me. Like trying to, well, really trying to help you, trying to make you push it off so that someone else can take it so that you don’t have to feel all of that stress, all of that strain, all that pressure and most people don’t see it that way, most people see it like you’re trying to pour it on someone else, you’re trying to make someone else bad but you’re just trying to deal with what life is telling you (telling you? - 44:09) and your brain does that in any way it can and so your personality can change vastly depending on your current mental state. You could be the happiest person, go for a break up and become the most grungiest, dingiest person and that all links back to emotions, loneliness, contact, all of it, it all goes together.

I: Just going back to the, what you wrote, so you’re saying that having a different personality can make you feel lonely or anybody.

R: Yes. For anybody because no two people, it kind of goes back to this one [referring to another box]. No two people are the same. This is physically, this is mentally [again referring to the boxes].

I: Oh, you mean box one is ‘physically’, I’m just saying…

R: Box 1 is ‘physically’ and kind of mentally because box 1 is about you could be surrounded by loads of people but you always feel lonely because they look different, they sound different, they feel different, they think different, whereas in box 3 is more about personality because it’s, sure, I may get along with you but our personalities aren’t the same so there’s a wall between us, I don’t feel like you’re there, I’m lonely because I can’t feel you if, it kind of, it all correlates to the same point that humans were all never not feel lonely because they have a natural instinct to feel lonely, all of your thoughts in your head are working to make you feel lonely so that you won’t feel it when you have to. It won’t feel as bad when it actually happens, it’s more like training your dog to run into a wall or jump through fire instead of just pulling a bandage off cause pulling a bandage off, it hurts, yeah, but training something to jump through fire, it’s turned, it doesn’t hurt, it’s used to it, your brain is kind of trained to numb you to that and can, it helps but not really, because by the time it’s finished numbing you, you’re dead or old, it takes you an entire life to learn everything that you need to know to finish that and by the time you’re done you’ve already experienced the loss or sadness or the loneliness so it’s kind of useless unless you have a big shock or suffer a big loss at a young age cause your brain correlates and does the process a lot faster. You become a loner, you become introvert, you become, you isolate yourself and that kind of helps but doesn’t, it encourages you to, yeah, loneliness is nothing, you felt it your entire life but then you don’t think about making friends, you don’t think about trying to be happy, you don’t think about any of that, you just think like that - being on your own, and you can’t do one without the other, you could be happy or you can not be lonely and it’s better to sacrifice it and be lonely and happy than just to be nothing, it’s easier and better to have friends and loved ones than to be on your own and not feel an emotion because you never experience life if you’re on your own without emotions and you go insane cause you’re gonna need contact, you don’t know anyone, you can’t feel anyone, you don’t know yourself because you haven’t learned to know others so you’re nothing at that point.

I: So, it sounds like what you’re saying is, just going back to what you said earlier, um, that you feel that others are different because, well, obviously you said ‘personality’ so is it that people don’t necessarily understand. How do you feel?

R: Yeah, people don’t understand each other

I: Because they have, cause they have a different personality?

R: Because their brain wants them to try and understand themselves before they understand anyone else so their brain is in the motion of figuring out who they are and they can’t really take the time to figure out who you are, so some people go fully trying to figure out who you are and then they lose themselves and they can be rash, they can be harsh, they can be happy, they can be everything because they haven’t defined who they are personally and to define who you are personally, you have to give up on the social life, you have to give up on meeting people, you have to give up on happiness, to learn who you are and most of the time you never get to the end and you forget who you are and then you don’t feel anything, you don’t feel happy, you don’t feel sad, you don’t feel depressed, you don’t feel lonely, you just feel empty. And no matter what you do at that point, you can turn it around, you could start learning other people, you could learn yourself but at that point you've lost a key part of yourself, you’ve lost your confidence, you’ve lost your ego, you’ve lost all of it, you don’t want to go outside and socialise because you think you can’t, you think no one will like you, no one will accept you but in most cases they will, in most cases people are more forgiving than you could ever know and you don’t learn it until you experience it and your brain won’t let you experience it until you overcome the fact that they might not like you. You never learn if they like you until you take that risk and if you don’t take that risk, you never learn. That’s why, sure, school teaches you a lot but being outside, learning the way of the world is more needed, school is needed because it teaches your profession but when it comes down to the like gross tax, you need to learn how to be a human, you need to learn how to live, you need to learn how to live with people instead of or at the same time it’s trying to learn how to have a life because you need both if you’re skilled at one you can’t do the other. If you do both have way, you’re gonna have a happy life but if you one you can’t do the other so you have to find a nice mix of socialising, making friends, doing that and education because to be the one fully and you partly lose the other, so you’re like, with me, I try to go fully into education but ended up getting side tracked and going to social so I’m kind of a mix. I’m really good at negotiating stuff like that and talking, even though I’m shy, and um I can’t talk in big crowds but I can talk like this, one on one, but I went for a mix of the two so I have the smarts to do my job and I have partly have the common sense to make friends, make a life out of work so yeah and that, it all comes back to personality cause if you don’t have the right mindset, the right personality to do both of them, then you’re gonna be stuck with one and you’re not gonna be able to do the other and then you’re gonna be a dropout who doesn’t know what he’s doing, getting like shutting [or shut in] living with your mom kind of thing or you’re gonna be on your own, successful, wealthy but have no one. And you want a nice middle - has a good job, make money, has friends, has a wife cause if you don’t have both then you’re lonely, you’re depressed, you have one or the other. This one you’re a shutting, this one you’re a shutting as well [referring to the drawing]  because you don’t have friends, you don’t have friends, because you focus too much on making friends that you have no social skills to keep those friends. This one you focus too much on not making friends who have no social skills to get those friends so you need to do both and then you can make and keep friends and sure it’s a sacrifice but you only live life once you might as well live it the best you can and do both. That’s pretty much why I wrote ‘personality’.

I: Thank you. Is there anything else you want to say about box3?

R: Not particularly.

I: Thank you very much. Can we move on to the final, forth box?

R: We can. So I drew this as an eye crying and it’s meant to have meant, represent males cause males are taught that emotion is something we don’t do even though that’s wrong, that’s completely false. We are taught not to show our emotions and keeping, men keeping their emotions pend up, makes them feel isolated cause they can’t share that with anyone. The only person they can probably would share that with is like a therapist or something like that, I don’t wanna see a therapist because I have too much emotions that I want to keep pend up, I don’t wanna show and that’s the whole reason I wrote this or drew this is because if you hold and hide your emotions you can never connect with anyone, it comes back to everyone being different. If you don’t have emotions or you pend them up, either you’re not gonna be able to relate to someone on an emotional level or you’re gonna snap and then you could hurt someone, you could do anything, cause you’re not in control of that moment, your anger is, your sadness is, your happiness is and you don’t know what you’re really doing so having to pend up all the emotions, cause if you don’t, you have girls calling you a pussy, you have girls calling you like a sissy, call you gay, use gay as insult when it’s not, they’ll try and demean you, they’ll try and hit you where it hurts - your manliness, they’ll try and degrade the fact that you’re a man, they’ll try and make you feel like you’re less than what you are and it’s quite depressing that men can’t show their emotions because if they do, they will most of the time not make it anywhere. You can’t be a president and then cry over something small. You can’t be a president and then not cry over something big, you have to show your emotions in the way that’s allowed, you’re not allowed to show your emotions too heavily you’re not allowed to show your emotions too little. You have to do it perfectly and most people can’t, most people will either have a breakdown or give up. That’s why most men, the suicidal rate for men is higher than women because men can’t show their emotions, men can’t sit down and have a cry because if they sit down and have a cry with their wives or a woman then in an argument later on that woman will use it against them, they be like ‘oh, yeah you’re a pussy, you cry, bla, bla, bla, bla’, yeah, and that’s why men don’t like sharing emotions even though we have a lot pend up, you can’t show that cause if you do you’re less than a man and that’s kind of efed up [f****ed up] that you can’t really put a cross who you are and because you can’t put a cross who you are, no one’s ever gonna know who you are, know one’s ever gonna know you’re a mommy’s boy, no one’s ever gonna know that you love a certain thing because you can’t show that you love your mama, you can’t show any of that. You can’t only show that you love manly things or I love football whereas you might love tennis, you can’t show that, cause it’s not a manly thing and that makes you feel isolated cause you can never let anyone know who you really are. When it comes to two male friends talking, they can show their emotions if they trust each other enough and that’ll be their only outlet so if that man who was to lose his friends that would turn this guy crazy because he has no outlook, he has nothing anymore, that was his one way to escape and he lost it, so, it makes you feel more isolated than any of the other topics because you can never show anyone who you are for the fear of them making you feel less than what you are. And it’s, this is stupid thing that we like made happen because if that wasn’t a thing people would be more happy, people would be more open and less people would probably commit suicide, a lot less people would do that because it all stems from not having that contact, that outlet, that a way to release your personality and sadness because it’s been cut off. You're a man, you can’t talk to people, you can’t cry in front of people, you can’t do this, that contact is gone, you can’t use that contact so you have to build it up inside you, you have to hide it, you have to cover it, and you’re either gonna snap or you’re gonna breakdown and snapping is a lot worse than breaking down because breaking down you show your emotions whereas snapping you act on your emotions, you attack someone, you beat someone up, whereas breaking down - you cry, you tell your emotions to people, that’s why breaking down is better. If you break down then you get a brief moment of contact back, you get that outlet once more and with snapping you just really kind of throw your emotions at someone, you don’t show them, you don’t hear, this is my emotions you kind of kit them with it, you kind of ruin your opportunity to give your emotions out because you’ve already thrown them away. And yeah, that’s quite disheartening because you can never really convey who you are, do you know what I mean? Yeah.

I: So, sounds like what you’re saying is, as a man, there’s this sort of taboo, it’s a taboo to express yourself, express how you feel, your emotions, cause you might be looked down upon or you might be considered as less manly.

R: Yeah. there’s a trend right now where women buy cups that have the word on it ‘man tears’ and it’s meant to show that ‘oh, men can’t cry’, ‘men aren’t allowed to cry’ cause if they do we laugh, we bring drink their tears kind of thing and it’s very, it’s one of the like new feminist movements and new feminism is just like kicking a dead horse [laughing]. It’s already been done, they’re just trying to not make everything equal, they’re trying to make men lower than women and they say that they want equal rights but they don’t and the, all the new feminism is making the ‘not being able to show your emotions’ worse cause a dude went to a feminist rally and he was talking and he started crying and they started beating him up and that was disgusting, that’s very angering and really the only emotion you’re allowed to show as a man is anger or sometimes happiness but nothing else. So they blame us of being angry but that’s all they allow us to be and so that’s nasty cycle that you can never really escape until something changes and yeah in the end because you have to hold your emotions back, you can’t feel together, you can’t feel loved, you can’t feel anything, you could feel loneliness, you could feel isolated, you could feel alone and that’s bad for your health mentally and physically. You can never really change it. Yeah.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box 4?

R: No, not really.

I: Thank you very much.

Part 2 - Participant 41 - Male, 18, B&D

I: Now we move on to the second part of the study. So can we start by talking about box 1, a place where you feel most socially connected.

R: Alright, for the most socially place I wrote ‘home’ because, of course, home is where the heart is. It’s where your family is, it’s where you’re most loved. You can go out into the world and think someone loves you but you never know, you’ve lived with your family your entire life or known them your entire life, so you know that they either love you or hate you, you know their emotions when they feel them. That’s the only place you could really let your emotions out. And even just talking to your family makes you feel better, makes you feel happier, makes you feel like you have something whereas say, college, school or education in box 2, you, once again, you’re surrounded by people but you don’t know any of them really, you don’t really know anyone, you may have known someone five years, they don’t know you, they don’t know where you’re from, what your life is, they only know your education, your college, they only know you’re from there, so they don’t understand you as much as your family does, your people at home, your people who live with you, have greater understanding of your ins and outs because they see it everyday, they see what you do, they see everything, they see how long you’re in the toilet for, they see how much you shower, how much you brush your teeth, how much you do this, and it makes you more connected in a weird way because no matter what you do, you’re always going to be loved by someone from your home, even if they’re all dead, even if you’re alone, you still know that you were loved by them and it brings a kind of bliss. It’s not a strong one but it’s there and it makes you feel a sort of euphoric happiness, it’s not really a real happiness but it’s, it helps [laughing] so that’s why I wrote ‘home’ under the socially connected because it is the place that you know the people the wellest, the best, where you know them.

I: So it sounds like what you’re saying is you like, basically, it sounds like you like that familiarity, you like that aspect that no matter what happens, they know you, they’ve seen everything about you, so that the element of judgement is less, a lot less so.

R: Yes, they know, say you do something wrong, your family will be the first people that judge you correctly because they know if you’re a good person they know that you’re good, this must have been a mistake, this must have been something you did by accident. If you’re a bad person, they know ‘oh, this is routine, this is normal’, so you get the most honest judgement out of your family, whereas someone on the street would be like ‘oh, he did it something bad, he must be bad person’, they don’t see you for who you are, whereas your family or the people you live with already know you so they aren’t gonna see you and judge you whereas random people will. Your family not already judged you, they judged from when you were born, they judged you as a lovely little baby so they will always see you as that lovely little baby, they’ll never see as a, anything too horrible because they already know that you’re this kind of person, they can’t, you most of the time can’t shock them with your actions because they already know that you probably did or didn’t do that because of who you are so no matter what you do they always think you’re a certain, they always have that good thought about you even though say, like, my brother someone like that, he will say ‘oh, I hate you’, but he don’t mean that, he’d be like ‘oh, I hate you’ and then walk out to me and like shake my hand or snub me, which he’s joking obviously but it shows that you can say something and mean completely different so your mom could be like ‘oh yeah, I hate you so much’ and it could be meant in a loving way and that, you can only get that with family or loved one because you can’t walk onto the street and be like ‘I f***ing hate you’ and they’ll be like ‘what?’, like they take it the wrong way whereas you meant it in a nice way or you meant it in like an enduring way and that’s why you can never really replace your family, you can just add people to it, you can never really get rid of your family, it’s always there and that’s why you’re always connected with them because they will never leave you mentally or like in your heart they’ll always be there and that’s why I feel like home is the most socially connected place.

I: So it sounds like your family don’t judge you at face value whereas, it sounds like what you’re saying is people may judge you, I’m just referring back to what you said  earlier that people, when they see you, the first time when they see you, however way they see you, that’s what their perception of you is gonna be so they will judge essentially based on first time impression or based on face value I mean.

R: Yeah, if you think about, someone on the street is gonna judge you from your cover, what you look like, how you sound, whereas your family have already read the book, they’re gonna judge you for what’s inside, what you’ve done, what you’re all about so someone on the street will be like ‘oh, bruv, look, he’s an idiot cause he dresses weird, he kind of yeah’, whereas your family is like they’ve read the book, they know that you dress weird because of this, you do this because of that, you are this way because you’re that way whereas someone on the street is like ‘they’re an idiot’, your family is like ‘oh, no, he’s just quirky’ [laughing]. Your family has the whole experience, whereas someone on the street has only seen the first page, you can never trust someone’s opinion on the street, you can always trust your family, that’s why I wrote ‘family’ or ‘home’.

I: So it sounds like you like this sort of familiarity and certainty because previously you mentioned that you said that you worried about what if and, about the future, if someone leaves or if someone dies or whatever, um, so it sounds like you like that certainty that knowing that your family supports you, accepts you, includes you, um.

R: Yeah, you don't have the ‘what if’ when it comes to your family, you don’t have ‘wow what if they love me, what if they don’t love me’. You know they love you so you don’t really have those questions about your family whereas someone on the street be like ‘ah, does this guy like me, does this guy hate me?’, whereas with your family it’s ‘oh, yeah, he jokes with me, he hates me but he loves me’ kind of thing, you never have to worry when it comes to family, obviously in certain situations you do but let’s forget that for now, we’re just doing it’s a perfect happy family situation and then, yea, your family it’s certain, it’s not lonely, you go there and you’re at home, you know what you’re doing, you know why you’re here, you know what is here, you know who is here, you know how they feel about you. You walk into college, boom, you don’t know who's here, you don’t know what they think about you, you don’t know what they feel about you, yeah, in a way it is certainty, you know, you don’t have to think, you just do, whereas with other places you have to why, where, when, who? Whereas home you’re like ‘oh, yeah, I know’, it’s a kind of calming situation that you don’t have to think but yeah.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about box 1?

R: Not really [laughing].

I: Can we talk about box 2, please?

R: We can. Um in box 2 I’ve written the words ‘college, park and’, well, not college, ‘education and streets in general’ because I’m gonna go back to obviously I’m gonna refer to box on the other thing [referring to the previous task - part 1], streets in general say, the Thames, you’re walking down beside the Thames, yeah, there’s hundreds, thousands of people around you but you don't fit in, you don’t know any of them, you don’t, unless you have family there you’re on your own, you’re isolated, even though you’re surrounded by people, you’re in your own bubble, no one knows you, you have to question ‘is that guy safe? Is that guy happy? Is that guy angry? Is that guy’, you never know, so yeah when you’re in an unfamiliar area, unfamiliar place, unfamiliar state of mind, you start to question, you start to think why am I here? I wanna be on my own, I wanna, like walk away, gonna be on my own, lonely is better than scared, lonely is better worried, lonely is better than thinking, so you rather be lonely than stand there and think ‘does that girl like wanna walk in front me? Does that girl wanna go around me?’ kind of thing. You don’t wanna have to question so you remove yourself from a situation and that happens in any public place, happens in a park, you’d be sitting on a bench and you see someone walking towards the bench, you’re gonna want to get up, you’re gonna want to leave, cause you don’t know who that person is, you don't know what they’re gonna try to do, I’m gonna take myself out of the situation or you could be in in school, college, university and even if it’s a teacher approaching you or a lecturer, you don’t know what they’re gonna do so you rather avoid that situation and that brings you back to lonely, you’re on your own, you have no one around, if you were to stay there you’d be worried, you’d be scared, you’d be second guessing. You moved away and now you’re still second guessing but you only feel loneliness, you don’t feel anxious, you don’t feel scared, you don’t feel sad, you feel loneliness, it’s better to have one than all the rest in your brain, that’s why I feel like these free things in general are more isolating, lonely and more melancholy situations, they make you feel sad, they make you feel depressed, make you feel kind of not whole, they don’t make you feel like you know what you’re doing, they just make you feel like ‘I need to go, I need to get out of it, I need to remove myself from the situation’, which then makes you feel lonely so you could go home, you could do whatever and you’d feel happy, but in those situations you don’t know what to feel so your brain automatically goes to lonely, your brain wants you to feel lonely so you don’t feel sad, it makes you feel lonely so you don’t feel depressed, it makes you feel lonely so you don’t try to feel happy cause you try to feel happy and fail, it’s gonna be worse so yeah those situations places that are the places I feel would be the most lonely.

I: So when you said that you’re sitting on a bench in a park and then someone came close to you and then you’d wanna get up and leave, can you tell me more about that?

R: Yeah, um, so, it all goes back to judging. You see that person, you don’t know them, you don’t know who they are. If they’re a homeless dude, you could, your brain automatically thinks ‘oh, he wants money, he wants this, he wants that, he wants to sit near me. What if he smells? What if he’s dirty, like, la, la, la, la’. If it’s a businessman, you don’t know if that’s someone trying to deal you a weed, you don’t know if it’s someone trying to do something to you, someone trying to get your information trying to scam you, so your brain automatically assumes ‘yo, if I leave, I ain't gonna deal, I ain’t gonna be in this situation so I’m gonna go’ and that’s happened before many times, like or you’ll be ‘there’s a kid’s park and it’s empty so you sit and swing, yeah, and then a family comes with their kids so you leave because you don’t wanna be in the situation ‘oh, who's the weirdo sitting on the kids swing?’ ‘who's the weirdo in the kids park?’ yeah, so you remove yourself then you feel lonely but it’s better to feel lonely than sad, it’s better to feel lonely than anything, so yeah it all comes back to the idea of judging people before you know who they are and the fact that you should, your brain tells you to get out of that situation so you don’t have to deal with what they are.

I: So you mean, they are what they are, as in, you don’t have to be judged?

R: You don’t have to find out if what you, your brain assumed about them is right or not, you don’t have to worry what if they’re bad, what if they’re good, what if they’re trying to do this one, they are not. What if they’re, it, your brain tries to save itself so much time, it’s better to be alone than to try to figure out who that person is whereas with your family, I already know that is, my brain doesn’t need to figure out who that is. With a random person ‘oh, I don’t know who this is’, if I leave I don’t have to figure out who it is, I don't have to figure out if my brain assumed right, I don’t have to figure out if I judged him correctly, if I leave I don’t have to do that. So of course leaving is the, in most situations it’s the bad thing to do cause it makes you look like an idiot, and makes you, the guy assumes you’re avoiding them or something like that and it makes you look bad but your brain wants you to be lonely instead of hurt, lonely instead of sad, lonely instead of getting mugged or some crap like that, then it’s really a survival instinct, it’s fight or flight (cause you’ve asked if they’re here and I fight it out  - 1:16:47) or I leave and your brain most of the time will say ‘yeah, I leave’ and then I don’t have to deal but then it’s your brain finds that easier than having to figure out who they are, are they bad, why are they here? What they are doing? Why are they sitting near me kind of thing. So yeah you can never really be, unless you’re with a family in the park or something like that, it’s a different thing, this is kind of thing if you’re on your own in these situations cause even being on your own in your house you know the only people in that house are your family or someone that broke it. And in the park if you’re on your own, you don’t know anyone, you don’t know anyone who's there so your brain will automatically assume that person is bad, why are they in the park? Or why are they doing this? I, I don’t wanna think about this, I’m gonna go cause, yea, that’s the way I think that.

I: And how does that make you feel, not knowing…

R: Not knowing...it’d be anxious, maybe a bit confused because you, obviously you don’t know and your brain doesn’t wanna know, it wants to leave so when you do leave you’re gonna be sitting there thinking what if that was a nice guy? What if that was a, what if he needed help? What if I just left him and he bleeded out or something, something like that, stupid, and so no matter, if you’re in that situation, then you stay, you learn about the person but your brain doesn’t want to you stay, if you leave you never learn about that person but your brain wants to know what was so in both situations you’re, it’s bad but it’s, only one is good. If you stay and learn who that person is, you make a friend, you make a new person who you know, it makes that park a little less lonely but if you leave then it just adds up these questions to your head: who was that? Was he nice? Was he bad? Was he good? Was he evil? Was he trying to hurt me? And then it makes you worry, it makes you think, so no matter what you do in that situation you’re always gonna be either scared or lonely or worried or happy or angry and you can’t really stop that, so yeah, it’s kind of depressing, confusing and it’s a deadend really cause you can do one of two things and both of the things are bad so you can’t really do anything to benefit yourself other than staying and talking and staying and talking has its risks so you brain wants you to leave you don’t wanna leave, you talk to him and it turns out he’s bad and now you’re thinking why didn’t I listen to my brain? Why didn’t I go? Why didn’t I do this? And no matter that you do you’re always gonna have questions and like I said before, it’s better to replace those negative questions with good ones: what if he was good? What if he just wanted a nice chat? What if he is lonely and he wants to talk to someone instead of oh what if he is bad, what if he was trying to hurt me, what if he was trying to look for someone to kill. Yeah, so always trying to replace negative with positive is the best thing to do so you could be like ‘oh, one of my grandchildren or some crap like that, one of my grandchildren is going to the hospital but because of that my grandchild is coming to stay with me’ so of course there’s a negative ‘oh my grandchild is in hospital’ but there’s a positive ‘I get to be with my grandchild’ and of course it’s negative cause your grandchild is hurt, injured or something but it’s positive because you get to spend time with him you get to have contact, you get to feel a little less lonely. So there’s always a negative and a good, you should always try and see the good but at some point you’re gonna have to see the negative cause you can’t always dismiss negatives cause they build up and if you don’t sort out the issue, it’s just gonna get worse so if you’re thinking ‘oh did I leave the stove on?’ or ‘is that electric?’ those why, messed up or some crap like that and you leave it, the house could burn down so somethings you have to address straight away other things you can leave, but it’s not healthy to leave them because if you do leave them they get worse because when you do leave them they get worse, they start eating away your mind and if you have too many concerns, too many doubts, too many worries, eventually your mind is gonna break, it’s going to give up all thoughts, it’s going to be like there’s too many things going on at once and your brain is gonna forget everything, it’s just gonna be ‘I don’t wanna know anything right now’. And there’s cases where people have had amnesia because they've gone through, they’ve come out of the army, they’ve gone through massive stress and they try to block it all out and the burden was to like hard to carry and so their brain is just ‘I can’t do it anymore’ and they forgot everything and it’s very rare but it does happen that when a soldier has PTSD he starts to enjoy the thing that gave him PTSD so he’s go paintballing, he’d enjoy it, he’d enjoy hurting people and that’s because he didn’t address the issue of ‘do I like hurting people?’ if he was to address that and when himself think ‘no, I don’t like hurting people’ then that wouldn’t have happened but if he didn’t address it and it got worse and then it nagged, and it nagged and then he began to enjoy it so you can’t really leave certain issues to fester cause they grow and in the end all you can really do it you either deal with your issues, block them out or forget about them and both those things are bad cause dealing with your issues makes you think about them, it makes you experience them and it hurts you for a short amount of time but it could be a long amount of time depending on what it is but if you leave to fester it grows and becomes a constant problem so most serial killers have a reason, say, like Ted Bondy, he did it because he wanted to, he’s one of those people who are just evil or there was the guy who killed because he had a foot fetish, a shoe fetish and he saw pretty women with shoes, he killed them and take their shoes and that was his whole thing because when he was younger he used to get beaten with shoes, his mum used to beat him with them so he become to like them instead of hating them to kind of, his brain was teaching them that they’re not a bad thing, when you get hit with shoe it’s a pleasurable experience not a painful one to try and fix his PTSD and so in the end he started murdering because of that it messed him up so much mentally that he thought that killing people for their shoes was a good thing that ‘oh, it’s not pain, it’s pleasure’ and so, yeah, leaving your worries unchecked can wop your personality and it’s a negative thing not just for you but for everyone around you because you can change on the flip of a coin, a roll of a dice, it can be you’re nice one day and the next day you’re a murderer, you never know, nothing happens for a reason, it happens cause it happens and you can’t predict that so you just live your life to the best you can and if you start to fest up on a certain worry deal with it, sort it out, make sure it’s done, cause if you don’t, it’s gonna get worse, it’s gonna (eat away 1:24:46) at you, it’s gonna make you a different person and you don’t want because you can become anyone. That’s all I have to say [laughing]. We went from talking about a park to talking about murders [laughing].

I: That’s okay, thank you very much. Is there anything else you’d like to say about box 2?

R: No, not particularly.

I: Okay, thank you very much. This is now the end of the recording.
