---
source_filename: Participant 35 - Female, 20, B&D (Part 1&2).docx
interview_number: 35
gender: Female
age: 20
borough: Barking & Dagenham
parts_hint: Part 1 & 2
---

# Transcript
Participant 35 – Female, 20, B & D

Key

I: Interviewer

R: Respondent

I: Thank you, um so can we start by talking about what you have put first please, thank you?

R: Yup, um, well. It says what do you associate with the experience of loneliness. So i would say that person, personally I have been in situations where I have been out and I felt my loneliest even though I am in a big group of people or I am surrounded by family and friends but yet I couldn’t explain how disconnected I felt from the people that surrounded me. So I feel that a lot of people can, can like associate themselves with being lonely, but yet in such a big place and being so crowded, and that’s why I put that, I have experienced it multiple times. (laughs) So.. yeah. Um, the second one…

I: Oh, before we go onto the second one, I want to go deeper into the first one if possible.

R: Yeah

I: So it sounds like what you are saying is you could be in group, you could be amongst a lot of people, yet still feel alone, lonely?

R: Yeah, uh, like a matter of times, I have been in shopping centres, like with a group of friends or just in general with friends, no matter where we go, yet because of how I feel at that precise moment, time or just like situations have been happening, there has been times where i feel very disconnected with people and not speaking to people, even though there is, there is load of people there that I could possibly speak to but I just don’t want to, or I just feel that I can’t bring myself together, speak to them. I think that’s the most lonelinest point, you realise that there is a load of people around you but you don’t speak to one of them. And, and, that’s just I’ve I’ve put myself in that situation quite a few times and I feel that a lot of people, a lot of young people feel like, I think a lot, I think we are just too scared to express ourselves. Uh, Because that is what I would say that I don’t do a lot is to express my feelings. So, just in general speak to people that I love the most. So, so I do struggle with that (laugh). So yeah, that is what I mean by that. I don’t know how else I would explain it. Yeah.

I: So when you say that you find it difficult to express yourself, can you tell me more about that?

R: Me personally, I am scared of hurting people around me, like I would rather their feelings before mine and I have done that really really recently, like last weekend when we went to France, I put everybody else’s feelings before mine, and I didn’t like, umm take care of my mental health or my health in general before everybody else’s. I rather make sure everybody around me is okay before even looking after myself. And like even with my opinions, if I don’t like something, I don’t share them, just in case I hurt people around me because I, my happiness depends on others, on how others feel, and like I said, I have done it last weekend, I rather see other people around me happy rather than making myself happy. I think a lot of people, I feel like a lot of people do it nowadays. So, I feel like that is normal, but it’s really not (laughs). It is really unhealthy to be honest. So yeah. I don’t express myself as much as I think I should be. Yeah.

I: Then how does that make you feel not being able to express yourself ?

R: well, it’s frustrating a lot of the time, but because of who I am, that’s how I put myself in situation, I could only be frustrated at myself that I do it, and it is no one else’s fault. So, the.. In that sense, I can’t really feel much about that, because I do it, its sort of self inflicted really, so… so I can’t do much about it because the only person that I can be mad at is, for doing and putting myself in that situation is me. So everytime that I put everyone else’s happiness before mine, that’s because I choose to, even though I know that I shouldn’t. Very very unhealthy, but that’s my choice, I made it, I know what I am putting myself into, even though I can’t be argrating, frustrating and upsetting sometimes. But as long as everyone else around is okay around me, it doesn’t bother me, in the long run, I know it will be better because at least um.. I am putting someone else’s before me. Seeing someone else happy makes me happy, even though they might not. Umm, that’s all I can think about.

I: So it sounds like we are like to put people’s feelings ahead of yours?

R: Yeah, I think it’s because in certain situations, there is sometimes where you should put your opinions across, and sometimes you shouldn’t. I feel with the people who you, they don’t really like the truth or they’re just more sensitive and things and i have like and I know what it is like to feel that certain way. I don’t want to put someone else in that position to feel how I felt so I would rather keep quiet and just let people be (?). Because it is easier, like looking at someone and going like I don’t want them to feel how I feel, so by not saying certain things or helping them. And expressing what you want them to as well, you have to like reciprocate the feelings. In that sense like, if they are happy about something, you’ll generally not, you will be happy for them, so that they don’t feel like they have to be awkward around you, so yeah again, put my feelings aside to make them happy, but this what you have to do. Very selfless, very selfless, I would say.

I: And it sounds like being selfless or you know, putting other people ahead, you can actually make you for say feel lonely?

R: yeah, I would say. Because when you put someone else’s feelings before yours, as much as it can make you happy, like knowing that you can affect people’s lives like that, just by what you can do as a person, cause sometimes be like a role reverse. So, instead of actually making yourself happy and trying to put your feelings aside, it gets built up after a while. So, it does make you lonely because then you feel like you haven’t got any true friends, because you’re not being truthful with them. Even though you are only trying to protect them. So after a while, if you do it for too long, I feel that you become a very lonely person because you feel like you have no one to go to. And yeah… that’s the way it is, I feel like it makes you feel lonely if you do it too often, sometimes you do have to have a reality check. Because if you don’t, you will get lost in a pool of nothingness, because it will become… it will take over your whole life, it really would, if you are just trying to live to make others happy and you can’t do that to 24/7. Otherwise, you will, you will just become lonely, I think I have got to a point sometimes, but then reality check brings it back, brings me back, so..

I: So that when you say that you basically sometimes, sometimes when you do things for other people as suppose yourself, you can get to a point where you feel like you have got nothing?

R: Yeah, you feel like… you feel like you always try to do something but yet you will get in nowhere with that, and you get lost and you get lonely you get lost, you end up where you originally didn’t want to end up. You wanted to be the person that helps everybody, you wanted to be the hero or you wanted to be the nice person that everybody goes to… but they all still do that, but then where are you? Like you have nothing, you have no feelings left, you have like no technically love to give anyone else in that sense because you have gave it all out and you lost yourself doing so and you just end up nowhere. Because, you are taking two steps forward, but four steps back (laughs) after everything you do. I sound like I am a really broken person. Yeah, I do it too often. So its kinda like a catch at a roundabout with that, because because you don’t know where you are going to end up. So I don’t think you can do much about it, yeah.

I: So it sounds like you are not being able to express yourself to others, how you feel, what you wanna do and things, that, because you feel that you have to put other people’s needs and feelings before yours, and so you are not able to truly express what you truly want, actually leading you to feel, making you feel lonely?

R: yeah. I think there is a time and place where you put others before you but there is also time and place to put yourself before others as well and at the majority of the time, depending on who you are as a person, I think that when you put others before you, and you do, you do that way too often, then, then you do end up like losing yourself, what you want to go and what you are actually achieving, through it, you lose what you really wanted to do. And.. and I think yet again, be selfless about that, it is basically what I said, you end up lost, you don’t know, you go in it, you don’t know what you wanted to do, you wanted to help others, and then, in the end of it all, you are lost and you don’t know what reason was at the beginning, because you have nothing to show? And you end up losing the sense of why you wanted to do it in the first place, that is the only way I could describe it, you lose focus of what you wanted.

I: umm, when you say you lose focus of what you wanted to do, can you tell me more about that?

R: Well, like I said, I would do, I would put others before me and push my feelings aside, the original focus of it to help others and make them feel better in situations and you sit there and some situations more closer to home and you don’t want them to feel how you felt and stuff like that, but then also got the part, which no one explains to you ever truly how you are feeling, you do it yourself, it is that because you are trying to protect them people, that your focus is to not feel like how they feel or how you felt in the past, that is the focus, and if you do it for long periods of time, sometimes you do the exact opposite, you not actually helping them, but making them worse? Sometimes, because I know I have hurt people doing it and I have known that people have hurt me doing that. So its, that is what you lose the focus of, sometimes you are not helping them, and you are making it worse. And yeah, that is what I mean by focus, so it  is a focus of what you wanted to end, well intended to do and what you’ve actually ended up with, the outcome is completely quite the opposite of the focus or goal was, was to help people, but hurting them instead.

I: And how does that make you feel?

R: basically like crap, because, because you try it for so long, but some people just dont want to be helped, even though you pushed your feelings out of the way to try to help them, or trying to make them happy, and it still doesn’t work, and like I said, you can end up hurting people. And there is nothing that you can do about it. That is what the hard part is, the fact that you tried and now there is nothing that you can do about it. There is no going back, there is no redos, you’ve just done, so you have to live with the fact that you’ve tried, you’ve failed, and now you have just got to live with for the fact that even though it is a fail, and that sometimes you didn’t help, then clearly you need to change it. The outlook is you may feel bad about it, but in the end you know you tried and that next time, not to do the same thing. And to get up and carry on. That’s all that I can say, yeah, you do feel bad but at least you can turn around and say you tried

I: Umm, thank you. What did you say here by the way?

R: What? Under the being lonely or crowd or with family and friends but still feel alone.

I: So back to where I said earlier, that you could be with family or a group of friends, but because you can’t really express how you feel, that would make you feel lonely?

R: Yeah, I feel that yeah again, you don’t want to express anything because someone might have different opinion or different feelings towards a certain subject, you just don’t wanna hurt the person that you have an opinion or feeling on. And my family is quite like sensitive, like talk to like my aunts and stuff like that, they are quite like spoken people but they are very sensitive, um so they would say their opinions but yet if you said something, about the same subject, and it was involving them, they wouldn’t like it, they are very sensitive. So I hold back certain things, opinions, feelings to not hurt them and not step on anyone’s toes as well. But I think that I do it for a positive, if its opinions, then it doesn’t really really matter, but feelings is slightly different. But I just don’t like making the family, especially family and friends feel like obligated to have to agree or disagree with my opinions. Feelings are very different in a sense of I don’t want them to feel like they have hurt me and vice versa. That’s why I don’t bother saying my feelings because if I know that it is going to hurt someone, I rather keep it to myself. So yeah..

I: Does it hurt you when they express how they feel?

R: I feel that they, they hold back, like they do feel, they do feel think what they say and how they feel, they would think how we would react, but I know 99% of the time, if they express their feelings or how they feel about certain things, then they would express it to me in a manner that wouldn’t hurt my feelings even though it is a rough subject. It is something difficult to speak about, and sometimes not, sometimes there has been situations where they haven’t been nice enough, but you sit down and speak it out, so that’s how that one works. But I just feel that I would rather keep my feelings to myself with the situation like that, because it is just easier, even though its not the answer. And I am like a very anxious person, so I would not sit there and tell them. But then it ends up making me lonely because I don’t get to speak about what I want to speak about, not let my feelings out, because if not I will start to bottle it up. And then sit up all night and think about it (laughs). So yeah… yeah and I am very like this person, so I would rather not.

I: When you say you stay up all night and you said bottle up about it?

R: I bottle up my feelings, yeah, I tend to do that if I don’t express my feelings or situations that happen throughout the day and I feel like I don’t speak about it, it just ends up playing on my mind, and making me feel anxious. And because it’s on my mind, I feel actively like upset or annoyed about it because I haven’t expressed how I feel. That’s when I sit up all night. That’s like, I feel like my brain is going a hundred miles per hour. Yeah, so I sit up and end up sitting up and thinking about it all night or hours on end at the night time. Yeah, it is a very bad habit.

I: So sounds like what you are saying is because you don’t express yourself as much as you want to, or in ways that you want to, you then end up thinking about it on your own and thinking about it over and over, and that makes you feel lonely?

R: Because I sit there and think about, could I say this, could I mention that and I play scenarios over in my head over and over and over again of how I could have possibly done it or if I am having a disagreement on opinions, I would sit up all night and have gone like, I could have said that or they could have said that more politely, and it’s just, it’s just a play over of how I could do things differently, a lot of buts and what ifs like in situations, like how do I approach someone and tell them how I feel. But yeah, I would never do it because that’s the person I am?

I: It also sounds like you might be a bit worried of how people think of you and how they see you?

R: I do get very worried of it because I don’t want people to form bad opinions of me, I don’t want to be the really quiet, shy ones or the really like loud and outgoing person because I don’t label myself as that, I don’t want people to form labels just because they only see a certain part of who I am and I feel that is why I don’t express myself in a sense of I can be loud on certain days but I can be shy on other days, but I just don’t like living with labels. I think it is horrible to have to have to live with a label. That’s why I get so worried when I meet new people or if I do certain things like I really want to travel the world but my family don’t really know that, because I don’t want them to sit there and go like well, she hates us because we don’t want to be where we are, but then again, that could be their self-conscious, their anxiety going she doesn’t like to be around us so, she wants to go travelling. That’s how I think because I overthink, overthinking, so I sit there and worry about the smallest details, even though people may not even have thought of that, but that’s just how I am and I just sit there for hours and worry. Yeah..

I: And how does that make you feel?

R: More anxious? (laughs) Because I sit there and worry about nothing really, in that sense because it hasn’t even happened yet, so why am I worrying, if it even happens at all, why am I worrying? I just worry about situations that probably will never happen, but yeah, I will think of every possibility. And it’s just… it upsets me as well because why am I the type of person that sits there and worrying like, I want to be not like a carefree, but like a carefree person where I can just sit there and not care about what others think and the labels on me or their opinions on me. But, it will be like, that would be lovely, can just sit there and be who I want to be. But I think it’s just how everyone built, yeah, their anxiety. There is nothing I can do about it apart from worry a little less.

I: Is there anything else you want to say?

R: No (laughs), I think that’s a lot of (?, 00:25:46)

I: No, that’s actually good, its good that you are doing a lot of talking. Umm, can we start by talking about what you have put in the… what you have put next?

R: umm, yeah. Being unable to sleep for hours, yeah… just worrying aspect of everything throughout the day, like even what I have done or what I have said throughout the day and I sit there and think about it and the impact on others. But yet, it is done and dusted, and  but yeah, I would still sit up for hours and think if people thought I was rude or I’d sit there and think I shouldn’t have said that, but yeah, I just lose sleep over the smallest things, like I said in situations or just play it on over and over in my head and I just end up losing hours of sleep or I get very very like distracted in a sense of, I will sit there and forget what the time is. I would get so engrossed in something because just to get my mind off of what I am thinking, I just get distracted really easily so I couldn’t sleep. And I’ve done that multiple times, so, but yeah. Just unable to sleep because I am so distracted. I don’t know what to say anymore

I: No no, that’s good. Thank you. Umm… I was just gonna ask you when you say you distract yourself from thinking, can you tell me more about that?

R: well, drawing and painting is like an escape for me, or listening to music because even though there is some words that I couldn't, like express or through art.. I don’t have to use words to express how I feel, and I don’t have to hurt anyone by expressing certain words, what I am thinking at the time, so music, painting and drawing is something that is so non-verbal that it wouldn’t hurt anyone. Because it is just instrumental pieces of like music that I could just sit there and listen to. It is literally just, it’s soothing, because yet I don’t have to speak, I don’t have to have a conversation. All I have to do is just sit there and listen to music. And, let the music take over, it’s the beat. You don’t have to have words, you have a beep, you have har- like the harmonies, you don’t have to listen to any words to express your feelings. It is the same way with art, with art as in painting and drawing. You can draw how you feel, you can paint how you feel and the colours express how you feel, the lines or the type of I don’t know or character or the kind of portrait that you do, it doesn’t matter. Like it lets you express yourself without words, and it is the only thing I ever hold onto like music and painting and drawing. You don’t have to use words. And this is the best part about it. Silence (laughs).

I: It sounds like you like silence.

R: Yeah.. because I think that silence is very peaceful and I don’t get a lot of peace throughout my life, so that it is something that I can reflect, in that moment I can reflect on all the positives. And not just reflection, it’s also it’s something very positive, that I can hold onto, I can grasp, even though there are a lot of negatives that goes on, so it gives me a bit of freedom, and I have control over and one thing that I have control over, I can control my art, I can control music and I can sit there and do what I want in peace. So I feel that’s why it is so, that it is so peaceful, the fact that I have control over it. Yeah.

I: So it sounds like what you are saying is you like the aspect of being in control of what you are doing?

R: Yeah, like in life it is very unpredictable, you can’t control like death and the situations and all the possibilities throughout life is pretty much out of your control in difference senses, but things like music, with your art or whatever hobbies you have, but mine being more so art and music, you can control that. You have the power to do what you want, even in this unpredictable life. You have no control of what happens but you have control of what you can do. With my possibility of being able to make people listen to lovely music made by other people, making art that other people might understand, but I know what it understands, I have control over that and yeah. When it all happens, I know that what I did is what or why I forever have control over it, my art and my music. So, no one has a say over it. I don’t have to fit a label or fit a criteria, it’s something that I have do and I have free control over. Like i have free rein in what I want to do. And I don’t feel lonely, I feel like I have been connected to a lot of people, doing that.

I: Imagine a few things, I am just going to reflect back to and ask you to tell me more if that’s okay. So you mentioned that basically you felt less lonely because you can connect with more people, that’s one of them. And you also mentioned that previously that, this world is an unpredictable world… um… the second for you to mentioned and it was just recently… maybe a minute ago, I am just trying to remember. Oh basically you said that you don’t need to fit your art or your music into any criteria or any kind of label. Is it okay if I ask you to tell me more about it?

R: Yeah, I mean. And again throughout life, I don’t like people labelling me as a person, and the one that I have control over is not put in music into a label or art into a label. That’s one thing that I can sit there and go well, this is different, this is something that hasn’t got a label, like you can’t fit it into a certain criteria, because in life, we always get put into certain criteria throughout school, throughout classes, through achievement, ‘oh, well, this person has achieved this, so they are a higher class’, or even in jobs, you get labelled, you get put into a criteria. Oh well, this person got this qualification so they can do a better job and they can earn better money, yet again in another criteria. And then the more money you earn as a person, you’re put in another criteria cause you could be a higher class, you are not working class, you are higher class because of the job that you have and the money that you earn. Everything in life is a criteria or it’s a goal or you are put in a label, and the one thing that i think i am free of is having something I can create, something that I have the freedom doing, not being put into a criteria. You don’t have to put, or you don’t have to be labelled as professional, because it is something that I freely do that helps me feel better, something that helps me feel not lonely. I feel like I can connect through my art, my music through other people because that is exactly what other people do for them to have control over some people, for them to express themselves through their art, through their music. And when people do that, they could see a lot through other’s painting and music and feel the pain, happiness, sadness that, I don’t know, the joy, and I want to be one of the people that don’t fit in one of those criterias and yeah, I could express myself, through my music, my art, yeah.

I: So how does it make you feel to live in a world with full of label; you mentioned when you were at school, students who would do well, they will be classified as good students and you know bad students. Or some with higher money, who makes more money, there is label that about all these labels?

R: It’s upsetting I would say, because why do, like why do we all as humans be labelled and be stuck in a criteria and labels when everyone is capable of doing anything. That’s like asking, can’t remember who said it but there is a quote, that’s like asking a line of different animals, like an elephant, a monkey, a fish, a penguin and all asking them to do the same thing and asking them to climb a tree, the monkey will think that its the best at doing it because that is what he is best at, but yet the fish will think that he is dumb, that is why I think labels and criterias make people feel, oh I am not earning the same as the CEO of Facebook. He probably earns a few thousand a year, something stupid like that, well yet the working class is like I am poor because I don’t even earn 21 thousand, but yeah. Everyone is capable of doing whatever they want, but why do we feel that we are stuck in with a label or a criteria because someone put that on us. It’s sad and it’s upsetting for anyone, and it’s the same to do with genders for example. Why? Because it is a criteria that we are born with, but people start judging them and putting them in a criteria where they are found upon, for example. I don’t like it but then they are labelled for the rest of their life. People who are transgender, we just call them whatever they want to be called by. Why are we labelling something that should only be up to them? As humans, we should be able to do whatever we want and not be judged by it. Yes, we might not agree, but if you haven’t got anything nice to say, don’t say it at all. Yeah. And i don’t like criterias, or labels or whatever you think is better or worse, that’s your opinion or what it is they think to themselves. They gotta think what they want to think. No matter what they think labels are for, they are uncomfortable. Yeah…

I: so it sounds like what you were saying is labels can put people into boxes, they can create differences, divisions?

R: Yeah, I think that they split a lot of people up and again, that’s where it comes down to. You’re splitting people and make others feel different, but yet reward the same thing. We are all human beings, why should someone feel different just because you label them as completely different to you? Yeah, their preferences or lives or their hobbies can be totally opposite to you, but we are all the same thing, we are all human beings, we are all living on the same earth, doing near or nearer things on the same thing. You might have a better job than someone or you are earning more, but you are still living. So whether you enjoy it or whether you don’t, it’s down to you. Yet again, but everyone doing the exact same thing, getting to the exact same place, well, some people have different roles. But yet again, trying to define someone by their preferences, likes or dislikes, and i think it makes everyone uncomfortable when you get labelled. I think no one is right, as I have said, we are all the same, we are all human beings. Why should we be defined for labelling? It’s rude (laughs)... yeah

I: Thank you, umm you also mentioned, I am going back to the couple of points that I have raised that you said we live in an unpredictable world, can you tell me more about that?

R: Well, we live in an unpredictable world because you don’t know much about the corner, life is, is not permanent, it is one day you might see your best friend and the next day you found out she is dead at the age of 20 for example. It is very unpredictable like you are not promised tomorrow. So when it comes to things like life, if you have an opportunity, grab it with both hands, and yet again, i don’t see why, why again we should hold back. I know i do it to myself, by hiding my opinions and not expressing it, others feel happy but then again, why should we… everything is very unpredictable, you never know what’s tomorrow going to bring you, who knows about tomorrow, like who knows? You might be on the streets tomorrow, and you have to stay humble, stay humble with everyone and everything that you do. But yet again, I think it depends on you as a person and good common, but i feel that the world is very unpredictable. So when it comes to music or not, you have control over that, but with life, it is unpredictable, you can’t, it’s impossible to control.

I: And how does that make you feel, knowing that you can’t control those things?

R: I don’t really feel a lot towards it because it is not just me that goes through it, obviously everybody knows that its technically unpredictable. There is nothing that you can do, like if you are out of control for something, you can’t gain control over it, it’s impossible to get in control. You’ll never be able to control or grab on it, you will never be able to control life and death in that sense of you don’t know when you are going to die. You’re never going to be able to stop the inevitable. And I am okay with that, it is like you’ve got to bring it with acceptance, you won’t be able to change certain things. Things that you can change, then change it if you don’t like it, but the long… well.. Bottom line is that you can’t be mad or upset over something that you can never be in control with, so I really have no feelings towards that because I know that I can do nothing, and no one else can do anything about it either. Yeah..

I: You mentioned you have no feelings towards it because other people are also in the same situation, they can’t control that…

R: it’s just why, why being mad or upset about something if you can’t control it in, in that sense, if nobody can control it or change it, or bend it, then there is no reason to be upset, because it’s like when you are younger, your friend will (?, 00:44:43), also your brothers and sisters have a toy, and they could share it. That’s jealousy, that fact that the parent or brothers have control over sharing or helping or etc. in situations, like sharing toys. Just the general stuff like that, you can control that, that’s controllable situations. But with all of the stuff in life, there is a certain amount of control that you have with certain things. Life and other subjects, you have no control over, everything is inevitable, you are going to die and that you won’t be able to control what will happen tomorrow, you only have a certain degree, but everything else you can’t control over. By that, I mean you can’t control death, like it’s stuff that is natural that we can’t control. Like natural selection, you can’t control that, it’s natural selection, so there is nothing that you can do, in that sense.

I: Do you think that and how does it impact your sense of loneliness?

R: And yet again, I don’t have feeling towards the fact that things that I know of I cannot control, e.g. life and death, whether I have no feeling because I know that it’s impossible to control it. So there is nothing to be upset about that. But when it comes to situations like arguments and like decisions, I could be mad over them or decisions that my friends make, I know I can be mad at, I know they can control it, I can control it. It is these kinds of situations it’s just yeah… And I have no feelings towards stuff that I can’t or no one can have control with then what’s my reason to get upset about? Just certain things that you can’t really describe, in an indescribable sense that you have no control?

I: And you mentioned, I want to bring out a point, the other point that I raised, one was about the the unpredictableness of the world, one was about criterias and labelling, what was the third one? Do you remember? You mentioned a few things that I reflected back to?

R: my memory is really bad

I: The last thing you mentioned, what was the last thing you mentioned? Uhhh, I can’t remember, I am trying to think …. You mentioned it as the first point. Anyways, I think I can come back to that when it comes to my head. Is there anything else you want to say about this box?

R: No (laughs)

I: That’s okay, thank you very much. Can we start by talking about what you’ve put in the third box?

R: I can’t draw in this one, but haha -  feeling like you don’t belong or fit in no matter what, yeah, there have been a lot of situations, just, like being out and about like or if you meet a new group of people, you just feel like you are different to them or that you just don’t belong or fit in, even though, you might have a great conversation, or you have same feelings about certain things, you still feel like you don’t fit in with them, or don’t feel like they’re comfortable and again back to anxiety, kind of anxious side that you feel that people don’t think the same as how you’d feel towards them, like reciprocating feelings. And that is what makes me nervous. The fact that they might not like me, I might like, the way that I feel about certain groups or where I am is not the same as what I would get back… yea.

I: So it sounds like you are worried if people basically if they don’t like you you might say something or they won’t like you for who you are or what you say?

R: Yea.. back to labelling things, what people think of me, like, I feel that obviously me being a white girl for example I have a lot of black family, black friends, I used to have loads of them, but when I was in school, at college, I’d sit there and think, because there were so much to do with race not long ago, do they sit there and think about me, do they not like me as a person, as a group? I don’t necessarily like talking about race because I don’t really see the difference, we’re all the same, like yet again we’re all human beings. But, it does make you think sometimes, do they think that I’m weird because we have different ways in cultures of growing up, and that’s just a prime example of how I feel just in general with people but it’s been an example because the girls in school I used to hang around with, we were all, we were all very different, we all had different cultures, I had Asian friends, Chinese friends, black friends, we were a very mixed kind of group, but I would still think ‘do they think I’m weird?’ but we got on and I’d still bring that to now, like how I am nowadays, and I don’t think much of it but I still have the thought of ‘do people like me?, do they judge me for a certain way I eat for example, or the way I speak, or they don’t agree on the same way in situations and yea, that’s what makes me feel more nervous, like, do I not fit in in my surroundings as well, like when I go to London I feel very out of place, I don’t feel like I belong in London because that’s not who I am, like I’m not a city girl, if I can had a choice, I’d be a country girl, but I just feel like I don’t fit in in certain places or I don’t belong in certain places in the sense of where I am or who I’m with.  Yea, I feel like yet again there’s a criteria sometimes, like if you live in London, you’re supposed to dress a certain way, speak a certain way, you’re not allowed to buy from certain shops.  It’s just, that’s just how I feel. Especially when I go to London, I feel I could get judged, every time I could get looked at.

I: Hmm.

R: It feels really weird, yea.

I: And when you say you don’t go to you feel like you don’t belong in London, you feel more like a country girl than a city girl. Can you tell me more about that?

R: Yea, again labelling. Like, I like nature, and if anyone was to sit there and like I don’t like shopping, all I really go for shopping for is for food, for example. I don’t like going out. I love nature, I love animals, if I could, I'd own a farm, I’m just a more of a relaxed person. I don’t like dressing up, I like being in comfy casual clothes, and doing what I love most, like being around family and friends, comfortable family and friends. So like, yea, being in the city is just not the type of person I am. You’ll never catch me in London, I rarely go to London, haha, so I feel like that’s just me, I’m not bothered with where I live but if you were to label me i would be in the countryside, but it’s just yea, I don’t feel like i belong in certain situations especially in London. I went up there for [LGBTQI+] Pride. But yeah, that’s why I feel like I just don’t fit in, I just get along with it, cause I’ve been growing up here yea, like I’ve had to live here. But if i had a choice I’d definitely move back to the countryside. Less drama as well, haha, it’s more like I won’t as much ambulances or police, it’s less busy, in other words.

I: And when you say you don’t like to dress up, like Londoners do or like other girls in London do when they dress up and all that, can you tell me more about that?

R: Yea again, labels. I feel like i have to dress a certain way, if I don’t look like lady enough, like lady enough, I will get judged. If I’m not wearing heels, like high heels, or if I’m not wearing a smart attire, then I won’t fit in, and because that’s generally what you see, Boys have been like smart, or work attire, I show up very out of place, Whatever trend in London I just can’t keep up. But I feel like, you have to wear certain things to then fit in like you have to be trendy, you have to keep up to date, or you have to look like you fit in. I can never keep up with trends, in London I would get stared at, looked up and down, that would make me feel uncomfortable like i don’t fit in. And if I’m dressing up like most girls dress up, I would feel very uncomfortable in that anyway. Like, those type of skimpy, like, I don’t do like a lot of skin showing, I don’t do the really sexy, like that’s not me, I don’t feel comfortable wearing that yet again trying to fit in, I wouldn’t do that to try and fit in because that’s just not who I am as a person. Even though I try, I’ve tried, in the past, but it’s just not me, I’d be lying if I said I could deal with it because I couldn’t, haha. Yea.

I:  So it sounds like what you’re saying is being a Londoner for a woman or for anyone you have to basically, you know everyone is trying to fit in and if you don’t fit into that, and lifestyle, attire, things, you’ll be judged, you’ll be looked down upon.

R: Yea, I think the majority of the time, like, it’s not so much that there’s like a criteria as such, it’s just that if you’re not keeping up with the trends that’s going on or if you’re on the business side of London and you’re still not fitting in their attire, you do get frowned upon, you do get looked down on because you’re not keeping up with the trends, you’re not with how this day and age is, you need to keep up with what everyone’s wearing, you need to wear the biggest and best brands, but not everyone does, unfortunately. But yet, nowadays, trends are not so bad because of the people like icons and celebrities are wearing all different types now, but you still get judged because if you get looked at and they don’t know what you’re wearing, you’re still getting judged because it’s not a brand that they know or and it’s not accepted in that part of London. That’s not how they’re dressed there, that’s how you feel, you just get looked at and you get judged because people don’t know what you’re wearing, they don’t know, like, don’t know what you’re trying to perceive by what you’re wearing, I don’t like it because it’s just horrible to get judged especially in London.

I: And how does that make you feel?

R: Well, I’m not their friend, so I don’t really care, but it makes you feel uncomfortable in a sense of you’re getting judged by complete strangers. You don’t know who you’re gonna see, you don’t know how you’re gonna be perceived, you don’t know what labels you’re gonna have just by walking on a street in London, but because of today today’s day and age, you’re gonna be judged no matter what you do. I feel like I’m used to it, haha, but I think everyone has to get used to the fact that you will be judged no matter what you do. Like if you keep yourself happy, being selfish, you’re gonna get judged, but yea, i think london is very judgy anyway, because I’d say that they are quite prestigious, but yeah, I’m not really bothered so much because I’m probably not gonna ever see them again, but it still makes you very uncomfortable knowing you’re getting stared at. It puts you out of place in the sense of ‘oh, well I’m getting stared at’.

I: And how does that impact your sense of loneliness?

R: Yea, again you feel like you’re out of place because you second guess yourself e.g. by what you’re wearing or you how you look and you sit there and you’re just like ‘I’m getting judged’ because I feel like, because of what I wear, am I different to everyone else? And then when you start to ask yourself questions, you feel like you’re the only one that looks like that and then you have no one to speak to because of how you look  like, have like, ah, its not so much loneliness in the sense of when you get judged when you’re in London or by what you wear, but it does in the sense of you feel very out of place and you don’t belong in that sense, like no matter what I wear, it’s not gonna be accepted so I’m not gonna get accepted as a person no matter what I wear. And that’s the way that I think when I’m in London, that I like I feel i don’t belong, it makes me feel lonely, if they’re judging me by what I wear, what will they think of me as a person? So, I don’t belong and I’m lonely, that’s the way I see that, like, if you have that mindset and you start to think like that, then, it can make someone feel very, very lonely. Yea.

I: And you put in the box like feeling like you don’t belong or fit in no matter what. When you say no matter what, can you tell me more about that?

R: Yea, because, if you feel like you don’t fit in with certain group of people, even though that you’ve been friends with them for years, they may have changed, they may have come and gone throughout a friendship group and like, very much similar, that’s just what I’m referring to. But i have a group of friends from school and college and like people have come and gone, but yet the one person I started off in this group, I’ve known since senior school, has changed into like a completely different person, and now i feel like I don’t belong because I feel so disconnected from her and all the others in the group because they’ve all changed, whether good or bad, I still feel like I don’t fit into that group because they’ve changed. And no matter what i do, whether I change for good or bad and vise versa, I feel like i’m not gonna fit no matter what, because we’ve lost the connection as people in the sense of who comes and goes, but with this one particular person, i feel like no matter what I do, whether I change in good or bad, and all that, I’m not gonna be able to connect back and I don’t fit in with any of them. Yea and again you feel lonely because you feel like you can’t go out with them, can’t speak to them, can’t express your feelings on how you feel they’ve changed, and, yea. It’s just, it’s depressing.

I: And that makes you feel lonely?

R: Yea, what is worse than watching a friend of like 8 or 9 years change into a person that you barely know, but yet that’s the person you always used to run to speak to no matter what or how you feel, and you no longer have that person to speak to. It makes you feel really lonely because the fact that all the other people change, and you thought that that person will always be there, you can always sit there and have the conversations you always have, but because they’ve changed so much you barely recognise that person and that makes you question yourself because that makes you feel lonely, you don’t know whether you could speak to them or not. You feel by yourself.

I: And how does that make you feel?

R: It makes me feel upset because I feel like I haven’t changed like everyone around me is changing, moving away to better themselves and I feel like I’m still stuck in the same place that I haven’t changed, and then maybe it’s me that’s like the problem, or not much the problem but in a sense yea as well that you’re the problem or that you ain’t changing enough to better yourself or better others around you, that’s why no one really speaks to you or keeps in touch, in contact.  Yea, which makes you feel like shit pretty much, it kinda sucks, but it’s not much you can do about that.

I: So it sounds like what you’re saying is it makes you feel when you see other people growing and changing, as you say bettering themselves, you feel like you’re not levelling up in the same way, you feel like you’re falling behind, you’re stuck in one place but everyone is like progressing, moving and

R: Yea, I’ve had a friend, when we first left school, in our first or second year of college, everyone from school, like... I knew 30 people, everyone I’d say, like 20 out of 30 people had passed their driving test already at the age of 18, and me at the age of 20 still hasn’t, I feel like I’m really behind. And then there’s people that are in 5-year relationships and I ain’t, I’m still single, I feel like I’m very, very behind and that I haven’t changed but yet, out of the 30 people, 20 of the people were doing them things, but 5 of them haven’t even done what I have done. So I know that I have changed to that extent but not as much as I feel like I should be because the 20 people will have done all of that, that they’re achieving all of this. So looking at myself I feel that it’s probably not that many people but my brain and because of the people that I did speak to, I feel that I’m very, very behind bur yet a lot of the people I speak to that are my age are still the same as me, haven’t done the test, haven’t done this, haven’t done that but it makes you realise that that’s ok. It’s just people have to move on and better themselves whether they leave you behind or not. So it’s okay to do that but in that moment, like people you surround yourself in that moment, it really does make you feel like you’re behind and you’re really not keeping up. But yeah you can’t do nothing about that, you can’t rush stuff that’s takes time.

I: And how does that make you feel when you see, for example, your friends growing and progressing and you’re stuck in one place?

R: It makes me feel upset because it makes me feel that I’m not achieving and not making myself proud or anyone around me proud, because I feel like I’m stuck in one place and I’m not doing enough to achieve what I’m supposed to be achieving. But yeah, everybody has their own pace and I’ve taking my own pace and…

I: [door bell rings] Sorry about that.

R: [interview continues] It makes you feel very behind and that everybody has their own pace but it makes me feel like I’m a disappointment because the way I saw it is well that’s a norm, everybody is doing it and that’s what i should be doing. And I’m not doing it, I’m so behind, I’m so slow, and yet I’ve still done nothing about it. But I know for a fact that I’m doing it in my own time so I don’t mess it up but when you sit there and see all of your friends and everybody else doing it like it’s normal, then you sit there and you feel like you’re a failure. You really do, you feel like there is no use, you’re useless, and it’s horrible. It is.

I: Thank you.

R: It’s ok.

I: Is there anything else you want to display about the past?

R: No.

I:  Thank you. Let’s talk about what you’ve put in the final box then.

R: Yea... I said disconnected from my feelings. A lot of the times I know that when i feel like all of the other situations we were talking about I just feel completely like numb. It comes to a point where you can get so angry with yourself, so upset with yourself, that you feel so lonely that you just become numb because you’re fed up of feeling all of that, you’re fed up of feeling angry with yourself or angry with others, those make you angry. You get so frustrated with feeling, all of these feelings, you just get to a point where you just feel numb. Like, there’s a lot of people that only describe like, what’s the word, like when people die, that’s the way that they describe how they feel is numb. But when you go through certain situations, all happen at once, and you don’t know how to process your emotions properly and you don’t know what to feel in that moment, in that space of time, you get so frustrated and  you just start to feel numb, and that’s personally how i feel when I get in a rappice [1:14:13] in a sense of in certain situations I am fed up feeling at all. So my results, I end up feeling pure numb because I don’t have to think about it anymore, well I feel like I don’t have to think or feel the whole situation at all, and I just end up feeling numb about it. And you get so disconnected from your feelings that there’s only one feeling left to feel and that’s numb. That’s it. I feel empty. And that’s the only way I can describe it. And it happens a lot of the time. Especially with anxiety, when you sit there and roe about everything, it just gets to a point where you feel numb, like you feel empty, so exhausted by a feeling [laughs].

I: When you say you get exhausted by a feeling.

R: Yea. After a while, there’s only so much anger, upset, happiness and joy that you can feel. Like, a lot of people when they say they have kids, it’s like it’s just phenomenal and like if you’re overwhelming and joy, but even that gets cut short by anger and like sadness and upset. You just, but, with, when you’re depressed or when you have anxiety, with all them situations, you will end up getting so like done with every other emotion, there’s nothing left to feel, and the only way that you stop that is by feeling numb, you just feel very empty, you’re so exhausted with all the other emotions that you’ll stop, like it feels like your body just stops and shuts down, because of like how much you’ve been upset or whatever, whatever other emotion you felt, and you just get to a point where your body shuts down and then that’s it, like you get disconnected from everything, not matter what it is, disconnected from reality or you sleep a lot but yet you feel nothing.

I: And how does that make you feel being so disconnected from your feelings?

R: Well it makes me feel everything really, it makes me feel upset that I got myself to that point, it makes me feel angry, because I shouldn’t have to feel like that, but then again it makes me happy because you need to get to that point sometimes to make you go: ‘right, well...’,  it’s a point of self-realisation that you need to come back from it because when you get to that point you know that it’s wrong. It’s really weird [laughs], yea, that’s the only way I can describe it. You can sort of look at it in a positive light, like you know that you have to, you can’t sit like that and be like that forever, you can get angry or you can get upset at yourself, but the way that you gotta see it is that that’s almost like rock bottom, when you get to that point and you’re feeling nothing, that is rock bottom and that you know that there’s only one way from that point and that’s up, you need to be more positive. So, overall, out of  all the emotions and how I feel about feeling disconnected is that it’s only a positive because when you get to that stage there’s only one way back and that’s positivity, so in a sense it’s good to feel that every once in a while because then at least you know that you’re human, that you’ve gone through all the emotions of how you feel and whatever, now you hit rock bottom, now the only way is up. And you’ve got to feel again, you’ve got to do something about it, so yeah that’s the only way I could possibly think about it.

I: And what do these pictures represent, you’ve got one section represents a straight face, and these other sections representing something else.

R: I think the way I was trying to perceive it is that when disconnected from your feelings compared to what you normally feel throughout your life, that’s the verses of it, so you will feel disconnected and it’s just one thing, but throughout life you feel a lot of things, you go through a lot of experiences, that’s why you have so many emotions, because you have different reactions to different things. No one should feel the one thing, which is disconnected and empty and feeling nothing at all. Because we have to, that is what humans are supposed to do. So that’s what I was trying to represent the fact that we have different emotions and we shouldn’t just have one emotion.

I: Is there anything else you want to say about that part?

No.

Thank you very much.

Participant 35 – Female, 20, B & D

Should we move on to the next one? Can we start by talking about what you put in box one, about what you feel most socially connected. Thank you.

R: I said (?) weatherspoons, because it’s one of my favourite places to go with my friends or my family, and i said I feel like the people are easy to talk to and understand my feelings. And then I also put like any concerts of social events, e.g like shows, or fairs or things like that or do with my friends. I feel like the things that has to do with music, or the same interests, yea.

I: So you like to go to (?) weatherspoons. Where is that again?

R: It’s a pub, yea, where there’s alcohol.

I: So you’re saying that you feel socially connected because you can express feelings, any concerns… like when you’re there how does that make you feel?

R: Before people start consuming alcohol, or when it gets late, there’s a lot of people, people that are in there have experienced a lot as in emotional trauma, like there is a lot of people that is very wounded as well, but when you sit there and speak to them they are such easy people to get along with, their conversations flow, and is there something on your mind they will sit there discussing with you for hours to make you feel better. Like they will sit down and won’t judge you, and you will compare, like not compare because that sounds kind of sad, but they do, they sit there and go look, it’s life, you’ll get up, you’ll get better. And they just make you feel so confident that anything that you like, or have done, or the situation that you’re in, that is there, that it’s a comfort blanket, haha, almost. Cuz they won’t judge you, and they’re just so easy and so local, and it’s amazing what other people might have gone through as well. So you sort of unite together and get along with people, and it’s nice because nowadays not a lot of people get along with each other. And they don’t get on the way that these people do. They’re very connected and very unafraid to say how they feel. Yea... positive vibes only. So yea...I’ve worked things out. Hahahaha. I enjoy, I enjoy Weatherspoons.

I: So it sounds like you feel very connected with the people that go there, that go through difficult periods of their lives, that have, you know, wounds, so you can relate to them?

R: Yea, it’s more of, yea again, because of this stuff they’ve been through, like colleagues, friends, they don’t judge, yea, some of them, like older than us, like maybe in 20, they are obviously the older generation gonna sit up there. Like, they can’t judge you because some of them sit down and say they’ve done ten time worse than what we’ve done and it’s our age and it’s nice, because you know for a fact that no matter what they are people that won’t judge you, even though you know there are people that judge you at home, and there are other people that will judge you. But, they won’t judge you. Very comforting the fact that you know.. They don’t judge. That’s one thing that a lot of people do nowadays. So… it’s nice.

I: So it sounds like you found like pub um… quite comforting.

R: Yea, it’s where a lot of good memories are… like, generally meeting people, like learning about them, their stories, and yea, it’s just, it feels like home in a sense, this is somewhere you can sit, you feel comfortable, you will not be judged, no matter what. So, that’s how everybody should feel… like they will not be judged. Yea.

I: And do you express yourself about how you feel, or opinions?

R: Yea, i mean, I am not afraid to sit there and chat to someone. We just, not compare, just a discussion on how they would do certain situations. Like if I had a problem, I would talk to them, and they would give me their best advice, and whatever… somewhere that will be a safehaven and no matter who you really come across and speak to there, you know for a fact that there will always be a friendly face for you to speak to, and that it won’t go any further, ha, like, no matter what you speak about, they’re there for you, and it’s nice, because not a lot of people are like that. People that i can trust, yea… I trust the people.

I:Hm. Is there anything else you wanna say about the box?

R: No.

I: Thank you very much. Can we start by talking about box (?), with you most lonely?

R: Well, at home, in my bedroom at night. Just specifically, at night. Yea, again, travelling on public transport or travelling to places by myself. Yea those are places I feel most vulnerable, and travelling to places where I feel unsafe. But not so much at home, because I know i’m safe at home, But, travelling alone by myself, or just public transport, I feel very unsafe, and very vulnerable.

I: When you say home in my bedroom at night, can you tell me more about that?

R: Yea, well, I mean, when you sit in there... and you worry, like me being worried, I feel very like, vulnerable, and i know that I’m there, by myself. And because I’m not doing anything, I’m at home, I know that I’m left with my devices alone and my own thoughts, and that sort of scares me at like, the most out of it all is like, I don’t like sitting by myself, that makes me feel lonely. Some thoughts can be very very scary, especially when I’m by myself, I scare myself. Hahaha. Imagine if there was someone in the house, like, great, thanks. Hahaha. It’s just some stupid thing my brain does, and I end up scaring myself. Haha.. yea, it’s just stupid stuff like that but I do feel lonely, in my bedroom.

I: How does that make you feel, when you have thoughts coming into your head, you know you say you may have a random thought of someone coming to your house, or…?

R: It’s just, first thing that striked me is fear… like, why does my own brain do this to me? Like, no one will come into my house, but like, I’m sitting at home alone late at night, by myself, and I think it’s just my fear that play on my mind, and I know I’m staying up quite like. So like, what if a spider drops on my head, or like, what if someone else was in the house? Or it might be, it’s my fear playing on my mind, it’s just tricks. It does that all the time, I’d be sitting there, I’d be locking up, for example, or what if someone’s behind you? It’s just simple, stupid things, and that’s when my brain will go, yea, fear. Kick in. And... I don’t know why it does it, it’s just I know that I’m scared of the dark, and my fears will just come into play, and it’s just that time like, and my brain just gets to a point where it’s tired. So… yea, it just do some things like that. I hope it was, cuz I can’t handle someone else in my house, hahaha. Yea. That’s just stupid, um.

I: So it sounds like what you’re saying is, you feel most lonely at home  and when you’re in your room, because that’s when your thoughts come, and then usually like that?

R: Yea, pretty much. I think, it’s just cuz I’m relaxed and I think, well, we have loads of energy, so just gonna throw faults at them. Not fears part, just at night in general, I feel lonely, yea kinda it’s in my head, and like it feels like two voices are going on in my head at the same time, and I’m just like having a conversation with myself. It’s like… yea,my brain is having a conversation like no one, no, my brain just works overtime. And i just sit there and thought, not good.

I: And thank you, and when you said public transportation make you feel lonely, can you talk more about that?

R: Yea, it’s kind of like the first one, so that you’re surrounded by a lot of people, but you’re by yourself, in that literal sense that nobody is around me, and I get like really nervous, really anxious because I’m afraid I’m gonna miss my stop, and I get very lost, I’m gonna hurt myself like getting of the train for example.. Like if I’m being clumsy I might get my foot caught, hurt my back, or just something like that. Like my anxiety plays really bad especially when I’m travelling by myself. So I try to think of the worst scenario to scare myself… haha. So yea again, feeling lonely, when I travel by myself. I scare myself and I’m literally just alone, because I don’t know anyone.So, it’s more I keep scaring myself when I’m by myself, yea.

I: So it sounds like being scared make you feel lonely?

R: Yea, it’s like a trigger, like fear, and something that’s scary, like something is unsettling. Makes me really like, lonely. So I feel like, that’s a trigger, it makes me feel lonely. I think that it’s an ultimate feeling as well, the fact that, because, I am by myself, it’s just me, it is like a vicious circle with all my fears. Like, oh I’ll be lonely, so that means you’re gonna hurt yourself, you’re gonna be the (?) that you usually are. And something bad is gonna happen while you’re by yourself. Cuz I feel safe with a load of people. But yea, if I’m alone in my room or out on public transport, something’s gonna end up happening bad. So that’s my fear or anxiety kick in, so it just makes it worse. Haha. Makes me feel lonely.

I: And when you said I’m safe travelling, does that…

R: Yea, just making me feel generally, like, if I’m going somewhere, I feel like bombings in the trains in London a few years back, or if I’m on the train, it’s just that’s what plays in my head all the time, like I’m gonna hurt myself, I’m scared if i’m gonna hurt myself. Cuz no one’s gonna see it, or ignore the fact that I’m hurt. Cuz that’s how I see it, like my brain, haha, it will play like tricks.. It will just work overtime, even though that would never happen. Yea

I: When you say people ignore you, if something happens to you did you say?

R: Yea, in the matter of time, like, everyday when you go home, will just pass a homeless person, for example, they barely like even take notice, like who would take notice if someone hurt their foot, or hurt their hand. That’s just why I see it, like no one’s gonna save me, I’m by myself, and that makes me feel lonely. No one’s with me, and if I hurt myself, they’re just gonna ignore me. They think that someone might be there cuz mostly people travel with someone, but yea maybe no one will notice that I might get hurt because I get hurt on a daily basis pretty much, because everybody has those days where no one notices that you’re not ok. Like, I mean, so in that sense, iterally, when you’re travelling, if you get hurt, no on’es gonna notice.

I: And how does that make you feel thinking that happens to you, and people don’t notice you?

R: Um, it’s more of like, a fear of being left alone, especially when you get hurt. But, it does scare me, it scares me more than everyone. Getting hurt and having no one know, that is the scariest part of it all. If I’m travelling and i feel unsafe or if I get hurt, my mum is not gonna be there, or my sister, or my best mate, it’s gonna be all by myself in a big city, or somewhere that’s literally nowhere. How are they gonna get to you? I don’t know, I don’t know if I will be dead, haha. But it’s just stupid situations, like I know that it’s a scare because I am by myself. I am lonely. Yea.

I: Is there anything else you want to say?

R: No

I: Okay, thank you very much.
