---
source_filename: Interview 42 - Male, 24, B&D (parts 1 & 2).docx
interview_number: 42
gender: Male
age: 24
borough: Barking & Dagenham
parts_hint: Part 1 & 2
---

# Transcript
Interview 42 - Male, 24, B&D

Can we start by talking about what you've put first please?

Ok, so the experience of loneliness, I kind of thought was the whole sitting at home, looking at your phone, waiting for an invitation or something like that and it's just doesn't come through type of thing, and it just experiences of it, happening, it does make you feel lonely. I’m more of an introvert so I take it as a good thing when I don’t get invited to things so it’s a lot harder for me to kind of feel loneliness cause it’s just something I’m kind of happy with, so yeah but just on that, I noticed that people went out for a night out and they just didn’t think that I’d want to come so they didn’t even think to invite me, it’s just that that not nice feeling that you get when that type of stuff happens. That was basically the adaptation I did in the first picture pretty much.

So what you’re saying is you sometimes, you know, you just generally, you might be waiting for a text message or for an invite from a friend to an event, to a party, to a gathering, to whatever, and when that sort of message or invitation doesn’t necessarily come through, that’s when you experience some form of loneliness.

Yeah, like a, been left out, that’s basically I feel loneliness is, being left out of a group, like it’s in our nature to be with each other so when it comes down to chemically there’s something in-balanced in your body when something like that happens I feel, but yea.

And how does that make you feel when you feel left out?

Just not nice, really, like, it shouldn’t, I don’t know, it’s like a, it’s not like that feeling when you’ve done something wrong and your heart drops. ‘oh, this a bad a thing’, it’s more of a let down, like it’s happened so, you know the feeling, it’s bound to happen again type of thing. And you just don’t, it’s not a nice feeling, it’s just, I don’t know how to explain it, it’s more like a, it’s not like a heartbreak feeling, it’s just an ache that you get sometimes, but yeah.

And then, another thing you mentioned was, cause you mentioned one was about waiting to receive an invitation from a friend but not getting it, getting the invitation, um and then there was another thing you mentioned, I’m trying to remember, do you remember?

About the chemistry or?

I think you mentioned two examples, one was about sort of you know, waiting to receive an invitation but you don’t, you know, you don’t receive it and that makes you lonely. And there was another thing about um….

Hoping to get it and not coming, maybe. I don’t know. Bad, bad, I’ve really bad memory problem so.

Don’t worry.

Really bad memory.

It’s okay. What did you actually write here, if you don’t mind me asking.

Oh just a, I think I’ve still got this text, to be honest. I noticed on a, just a, like, Facebook, can’t remember it was Facebook but I noticed that a few of the lads went out and I asked them: ‘you went out?’ and they were like ‘oh sorry, didn’t think you wanted to come’, and then I basically replied with ‘it’s fine, I was busy’, which was a lie but it was one of those “do not show face that you wanted to be there even though…”. I’ve stated to every friend and family member that I’m pretty much an introvert so I kind of stay away from most things.

So it sounds like you founded like, you know, you, you might have, you might have gotten a bit upset that your friends didn’t…

Yeah…

Include you.

Yeah, it was like just a lack of inclusion wasn’t really a nice feeling, it was a let down to be honest. You don’t really feel, I don't know how to explain it, it’s like, it’s more of a, it’s not a let down, it’s more of a, you knew it was coming, type of thing, but you expected even a hint of that they wanted you to come, just to not be included is a, it’s not a nice thing...but, yeah, so.

And how does that make you feel not being included?

I’m really good at putting up shields, so I say it, it didn’t bother me at all but then I’ll go do something to keep myself occupied and my brain would just be thinking of loads of reasons, in the next few pictures you’ll understand even when I’m around people will sit there and just ‘should I be here?, Is there a point in me being here? Am I making anything, any type of affect on someone else’ enjoyment for me being there, type of thing?’ But yea, it’s like, it’s like I like to see my impact when with and around friends type of thing so when it comes down to I constantly question, I’m, I over-analyse things way too much about whether I’m, it’ like self-worth, really. Loneliness has a lot to do with self-worth. If you’re lonely, you kind of question whether you’re, whether you’re supposed to be lonely or whether it’s just how it is for you or yea, but, yes so it’s not a nice feeling, it’s a, it’s just a small heart drop, ‘oh, okay, well, it’s fine’, type of thing, you put up a little bobble to keep yourself from feeling bad but then in the end you end up feeling bad when you overthink it, but yea, so. It’s fine even though it’s not fine, type of thing.

It sounds like the way you kind of deal with it from what you said, you try to put a shield on, you might engage in some other activity just to keep yourself occupied…

Yeah,

So you don’t have to…

It doesn’t work for a long period of time, it kind of keep you from being, what’s the word, keeps you from being depressed for a set amount of time but then you go into a downward spiral, that usually you’re able to fix just by going out setting up a day with friends and then it goes back to you figure out your self-worth, you’re around friends you enjoy being around, something news happened that gets you distracted but in the end it always comes back to ‘is there a point?’ what is the point of social life like?’ Really, the way I look at things is I get up, I earn money to pay for my living, I go back to sleep, I eat, that’s it, type of thing, but when it comes down to social, that’s a choice, really, which I like to say I’m an introvert and say that, I like to have that choice but sometimes that choice isn’t your choice, sometimes if you’re away from friends for too long that they decide that they are having fun without you, so what’s the difference, type of thing. But that’s, that’s in my mind, I don’t know what they’re thinking, that’s what I, that’s what you start to envision in your mind what they’re thinking, which is never, never nice to have thoughts like that because it’s always, it’s bad thoughts.

So the way you found out about, you know, them going out to not including you was through social media, I guess, right?

Yeah.

On Facebook.

Social media is great but then it’s also probably the worst thing that’s ever happened to, to the human race, to be honest. You really want to go as far like, social media is great because you can be connected with people but then is that because you can be so disassociated from people because it’s not a face-to-face, I like, if I’m gonna talk to someone, I call them and talk to them or I go to their house and have a sit down, talk to them, I like, I like face-to-face interactions but not, not, I have all the social media platforms but they’re just so plastic, if you know what I mean. They feel too fake for me. There’s a lot you can correct yourself that if I was here talking to you, I can’t say something, take it back and then say it again in a different context, like, and I feel context is lost when you’re in a, you’re in a text format because there’s no eye to eye contact, there’s no, there’s no reading of the face, you can’t see if they’re being truthful. I like to talk to people just to figure out, but that’s just, that’s just, yeah. So it’s a problem with social media, trust is hard, it’s hard to trust, everything is true when it’s coming through a text because you can’t, you can’t read a text, you can read a text of course, but you can’t read as I said the context, you can’t, but, yeah, so. Misinterpretation is bad thing that comes with social media, and I think it does more to harm social activity than it does to help, to be honest.

And how do you feel about that?

It’s a, it’s a, it’s a, it’s a feeling like it’s out of my hands, like it’s uncontrollable type, there’s nothing I can do to change it, type of thing, it’s that feeling, like, you can’t, what’s, but yea, it’s a feeling of like your hands are tight, like the hope, the hopelessness, like you can’t, you can’t, it’s uncontrollable, like it’s gonna happen whether you’re involved or not is the feeling I get from it, type. Yeah. I don’t, I feel sad that it’s gone to that standard, like social media’s gotten to the standard of it has like how much obviously, just a sheer, greatness of it, it’s kind of got out of control kind of, I don’t know how to phrase it, it’s more a, use it at your own risk because it’s great, it does help with social interactions but I feel as much as it helps ,it’s, it’s worse, it doesn’t, as much as it’s good it’s also extremely bad because it kind of distances you even though you can show your face and look to be happy on a phone or of thingy, you can’t, you don’t have that same type of interaction that would have with a straight, straight up person like sitting in the same room, having a chat over a cup of tea or biscuit, something like that. Sitting on a Instagram, stocking up some, some random person that you have no connection to or talking to someone that’s in America that has completely different views to you, it’s stuff that gets, opens your eyes to humanity and how, how it works but then also it’s not helping you socially because if you’re sitting you’re not, you’re not having the same social, that, the same connections to a human being you’d have if you were face to face. I feel like, I feel like, social, social media and the way it works is kind of it inflicts loneliness on people even though you think it won’t. But it does more to inflict than solve, to be honest, if I had to be completely truthful. But yeah. And the feeling that that gives you is a, is a feeling of, if I had to, hopelessness, because out of everyone you’d think someone would have spotted that this does this, there has to be a smart guy out there that sees the inflict, the, the conflict of good and bad that it actually does to affect people’s connectivity and people’s disconnect, if you understand what I mean. It just doesn’t feel right, to be honest, that’s why I try to keep away from social activity, as I said, [I’m an] introvert, but that’s just a shield you put up, honestly. But, yeah.

Did you say that’s a shield to put on?

Yeah, it’s a, you can hide behind your phone, like, I can, I can write a text a thousand times and then choose between the ones I want and perfectly change it to the exact thing I want to manipulate the outcome of a text so I don’t mean like it’s gonna show your emotions, it’s not exactly easy to show your emotions in a text but it’s more of a, how do I say it? Like a, you can rub out stuff in a text but if you’re in face to face, if you make a mistake, it’s that social correct that you get, you get corrected on, like if I was to say something bad in a group, that will stay in the group until it’s deemed for gone but if I was to say it in a text, you wouldn’t say it in a text, you’d, you’d notice as you’re typing it out that it’s wrong or that something’s happened, that, that, that, that’s not the right thing or, or, you’re able to evaluate the words before they come out type of thing, and that’s not right, that’s, that, that kind of affects, cause it’s fake, that’s what kind of I think emphasises loneliness cause you’re not portraying yourself in a text, you’re portraying what someone wants to see you as in a text so you’re not your real person, you’re not your real self, so, if you can’t be your real self around this person, the same as you are in a text, then what’s the point? And that’s a, that’s a, that’s a mindset you’re gonna have throughout most social media. If you have to keep that mindset throughout the whole, the whole interaction it’s not, it’s not you, so it’s not,  it’s like you’re working towards a, you’re working towards a character that isn’t you basically, it’s not your, it’s not you, so they don’t see you so you don’t wanna show yourself to them as you don’t. It’s weird to explain, it’s kind of, that’s why I think, that’s what I think social media does anyway, it just, it just, it just messes with your character and if you can’t portray your character of which is yours and no one else’s you kind of feel left out cause you can’t, once you portray yourself in one way you can’t go back because you’ve already started basically, you know, there’s no going back from a, from a character that you’ve made, there’s no rubbing out, like, yeah, so, basically, I feel social platforms and loneliness are really connected just by the fact that you can portray yourself as someone else and that means you’re not portraying yourself as yourself, which disconnects you from anyone you’re talking to on a social platform really, because, yeah, I think that like a thousand times already [smiling] but it’s just, there’s something that hits hard, I like to be completely honest when it comes down to any type of social platform if I’m, if I’m having a hard, if I’ve, if I’ve got a problem, I’ll have a problem on Facebook, I have a problem on Instagram, I have a problem on Snapchat. It has to stay consistent with your, your identity but I feel a lot of people, when they use social platforms they change their identity which kind of untethers you from you, basically, it untethers you from your, the mirror you see yourself in, type. So yeah, I don’t think, I think, it’s just the feeling that it gives me is one of despair because it’s not gonna change, it’s never gonna change, like, we gonna get rid of Facebook? We gonna get rid of any of these social networks? No, so, it’s just how it’s gonna be and the fact that it’s going to be how it’s going to be means that what can you do? Yeah, so. It’s a shame, really. It could have been great.

So it sounds like what you’re saying is social media take you away from that true sense of who you are, true self that you are, because you have to put on a persona, in a way, on those social platforms, so, because you’re away from, you’d be away from who you truly are, then that’s when you feel lonely, that’s why you’d feel lonely.

Yeah, yeah, and you doubt that your true self is what people would like to be around because you’ve made this character up in your eyes or on, on the platforms that you’re using so it’s basically like, yes, it’s not a nice, it’s not a nice thought but it’s a thought that everyone has to have when they first start off using these types of things because it’s dangerous. Loneliness is in, I, when I was, when I, I used to have thoughts like this all the time and I used to, I used to sit there and think, you have to mentally steady yourself to use social media outlets, stuff like that. It’s not something you can just go into blindly because you get, you get sucked in, you’re watching other people and how they act and you try and mimic yourself the act, the way they act because that’s the social norm, that’s what how it should be, so if you’re not normal you’d rather be at home or at the movies watching a movie, at home doing what you like, you don’t see that on social media because social media is social, there’s no, there’s no, what’s the word for exclusion, there’s no, there’s no, there’s no alone time in social media, like you’re not sitting there with a book while recording yourself and putting it live on Facebook or something like that, you don’t, that’s not something you see, so that’s not something you see as normal, so when someone, let’s say, wants to read a book and be left alone or really gets, really gets involved like I was reading, I don’t know why, I just, it was something I had read that one of the best books you should be reading is some of the Steven Kings and I, I really got into Moby Dick for like a good couple of days, I read the whole thing and it was like ‘okay, how do I get this that I’ve, how can I tell people that I just spent four days reading a book doing nothing, just going to work, coming home, reading a book, going to work, coming home, reading a book, 25:43 all the stuff you need to do just (vive? - 25:45) vive but just that type of no interaction with anyone else, just you and this author that’s long dead but you have that connection with that person because you’re reading a book that they did so much, it was great, the book was great, it kept me completely occupied, so. I play PlayStation, I do all the normal stuff that everyone does but when I get into a big saga of, when I get into a big saga of books or something like that, it kind of just disconnects cause I feel like I’m, I’m giving myself a better connection with books and other outlets that I feel better than the one I’m getting basically, so I feel that a book suits me more than talking to someone on Facebook or talking to someone, snapping with someone, that type of dumb stuff. It’s, yea, alone times are good time cause you don’t have to have social norms or you don’t experience loneliness because you don’t think about being around people because you’re reading a book, you don't need to be around people to read a book so it’s just something that you do without having to worry and that type of disconnect, I feel everyone should have and social media just doesn’t give it to you cause you’re constantly, you’re either being constantly watched or you’re constantly watching and yea, it’s just, it’s not good, it’s practically it, really. It’s just, it’s just bad, not bad as in it feels wrong, it feels like it’s wrong but yeah, it’s kind of, I don’t know, it’s a, it’s, it’s a feeling as I said of hopelessness, like it’s never gonna change, type of thing, so trying, I try and disconnect from it, still use the usual things, I still go out with friends, I still do stuff that would be tolerated in society type of thing, it’s like I go clubbing, I hate clubbing, worst thing that can ever be happening, it’s literally like human body rubbing up against each other full of affection, it’s just not something, it’s a waste of time, I feel. Maybe for the gorillas that are in there but not for me, honestly. I feel alone, I try and hold myself for a highest standard in some of that stuff because when I look at it, I feel that that’s just pathetic sometimes. But yea, but that’s just the way I think about stuff. But, it’s that social norm that you miss, after everything I said, it’s that weird feeling like I could be out with friends, I could be doing stuff, could be having fun, and then when I go and do it, I don’t have fun being out, I don’t, I, I find fun when I’m not around people, if you understand, it’s easy, it’s easier when there’s no correct, there’s no wrong, it’s just me, so I can be me. When I’m around people, I have to be what people want to see which as I said conveys the, conveys a person that’s not me, so in retrospect, if it’s not me, I’m not getting those type of chemicals in my brain or those type of interactions that my character should be getting, I said that in a third person but it’s like, it’s just lonely because, you’re not, it’s not you, you’re not you when you’re out doing stuff, you’re what people wanna see, so and if that’s what people wanna see, you’re obliged then, and then you go back to what you were doing and then you become you again when you’re on your own. I feel loneliness isn’t, I feel loneliness isn’t as bad as everyone makes it out to be. I know a lot of people take it hard because they’re a part of the social circle and loneliness is forbidden for people because there’s something that you’re not supposed to be in, you’re not supposed to be lonely because you’re, because you’re, you’ve got a 1000 followers on Facebook or you have a Snapchat streak of a 1000 or some bull, bull like that. It’s, it’s something you shouldn't feel when you’re in that type of group when you’re in that type of situation but loneliness for me is more a custom, because something I’ve dealt with and something I can deal with. Being around people is harder to deal with because it’s something you’re not, you’re not used to type of thing. Everyone gets lonely but it’s how you deal with it. People get depressed when they get lonely. Depression and loneliness is hand in hand but then people get depressed when they’re around friends, I can happily say that I’m, you’ll see in one of the things, in one of the pictures - I can be around my entire rugby group where I’m supposed to be around best friends and I feel lonely because it’s not me, it’s this feeling that you get, it’s like you feel fake even though you conveyed this for five, going on six years, it’s like, what’s the point? It’s not, it’s not, it’s not me. But yea, loneliness, loneliness is loneliness, it doesn’t affect me like it affects other people, I can say that but then it’s weird. If you’re around people as I said, if you’re around people, loneliness is a good thing to have but just being disconnected is a form of being lonely. I can be around a full group of people and not be in the same brain wave as them type, I don’t know how you say it, I have a completely different character to most people, I, I’ve gone to psychiatrists about it, it’s, it’s not something, I question everything, everything. Why is social social? Why do we have to do, why do we have to do these things to feel good? Which we don’t, like, you have, you have different types of people that get different types of happiness at different things. One of them is not, not being around people. I prefer to be on my own because I know that I don’t have to be anything other than my me. And that I don’t have to be something fake, basically. No one likes being fake even though people have to be fake sometimes for people to like them, so. If you don’t like me, you don’t like me, that’s how it is. And if that pushes away friends, if that pushes away family members, then that’s not a problem for you, it’s a problem for them because they can’t, they can’t understand your way, your view of life. I’m not, not depressed, I like being alone, it’s easy, it’s a lot easier than having to constantly read people’s faces, having to constantly make sure you’re doing something right, not doing something right, I don’t know if that’s just me, if that’s a, if that’s a thought in my head that I’m the only one that gets, like, did I just say the right thing? Did I just, I overthink things. So as I said, I overthink things way too much and it’s easier to not do that, not have to do that than to do it. That was number 1 [laughing] but I kind of hit all of them to be honest.

I just wanna go back to a couple of things you mentioned if that’s okay. You mentioned that sometimes social media takes away that time you spend with yourself. I think, I’m trying to remember or reflect back what you said. You said that no one’s gonna put a picture of themselves or video when they’re, you know, alone in their room and reading a book, it’s, it’s, I’m just trying to understand, it sounds as if, it sounds, it sounds as though social media kind of takes away that positive lone time that you could spend with yourself. I don’t know if I made sense of it correctly but please correct me, maybe I’m.

That’s pretty on spot. There’s a alone time that’s good that you need to have, like, like, as I said I like to read books, I like to play playstation, I like to do stuff that everyone does but I just like to do it more than everyone else type thing. I like to, I prefer to be reading a book than going out clubbing cause I’m a big lad, going out clubbing usually leads to a fight and I’m like the softest person ever. I’d rather break up a fight than do a fight type, and when I say do, I mean deal with the person that’s making the fight, type of thing. I, it’s a lot of social norms to get drunk, getting to a fight, getting to problems with people, have problems with people but you don’t, I don’t see it as as, as a, as something worth doing, I’ve got what, I’m 24 and got about 50 years left if I’m lucky. I don’t wanna waste that doing dumb shit. Why would I waste my time trying to make other people happy when I could be happy myself type thing. And being alone, reading a book, just expanding my vocabulary, that’s not a good word to not know, just expanding my vocabulary, reading as many books that, I was told when I was young, for every book that you read, you’re basically one book smarter. Like there’s words that you’ll read that you never knew that you have to look up type of thing, and I like that expansion of the brain type thing, I like going on YouTube and just watching stuff that I never think to learn, that type thing. There’s stuff on YouTube that’s great, and then there’s dumb stuff on YouTube, it’s like so bad stuff but it’s that, it’s, it’s that alone time that allows you to do that type of stuff, that allows you to imagine yourself in different situations. I like to watch movies, I like to, I don’t just watch a movie, I sit down and I think about a movie, and I overthink about a movie and then when I’ve over-thought it too much I then have to watch it again to get the, get the heart of the movie back. Like I read a book one month, have a lay over a month and then read it again because I don’t think I quite fully understood the book or I feel like I might have missed something but there’s no second chances in a bar or trying to hook up with a girl. There’s no, there’s no, there’s no, ‘oh, let me have a look at that’ type of thing, ‘let me have another girl’, if you, if you mess it up, it’s very hard to go back, type of thing, it’s very hard to lose a friend than get that friend back because of something you said or did type of thing. You won’t, you won’t get there with anything you do on your own, if you forgive yourself for doing something stupid, then that’s you forgiving yourself type of thing, yeah. If I get angry and I break something, if I do it and I’m in a room that’s on my own, that’s just on me, that, for me to fix. If I get angry and break something when an entire group of people in there, that’s on me, that’s for me to fix but then I have to change everyone else’s view about me because I did something in the eyes of them as well, that type of thing, yeah, I’d rather not, I get angry sometimes, I break stuff, I pay for stuff after I break it type of stuff. But, if you're in that sort of social norm, angry people take tablets for being angry. I'd rather not. If I’m angry, I’m angry, if I’m, it’s that thing you can sort out if you’re on your own, I can sit in a room, calm myself down, if I’m among 100 people in a nightclub someone's trying to calm me down it's not gonna work because there's that connection that I don't have with that person. So why do I trust this person to come down, it’s that disconnect that you have as I said before, you don't have a connection with someone that you don't trust, that you don't know and with social media, can you trust? Who do you really know? That’s my thought, like, so yea that’s basically my thoughts, so what is the chances that I’m opening myself up but the person I’m opening myself up to is fake, isn’t, isn’t the person I was opening myself up to and then there’s the whole ‘if that situation does happen, should I feel stupid for trusting that type of situation?’ For feeling that I can open myself up, feeling like I don’t need to behave socially normal or correct around this person type of thing. When you have, let’s say, you have a best friend, you’ve had them for years, had a best friend for years, the stuff you do around that best friend that you won’t do around someone you’ve met for a month or know for a month type of thing. There’s that connection that you have with that person, that kind of give you the chemical reaction that you, that you, that feels good. But if you, if you try and do that around someone that you don’t know there’s always that awkward ‘am I doing something bad?’, you’ve been able to read this person for a month, you’ve been able to read that person for a year or seven years or how many years you’ve known this person for and there’s, there’s, there’s just, it makes it easier if you. I know a lot of people who try to broaden their friends so they have hundreds of friends that they only know for a couple of days but then I have, I have a friend that I’ve known for 20 years and I’d say he’s my friend, only friend that I can sit and trust and talk to. Honestly, if I needed him to hire a buddy, he’d probably hire a buddy type of thing, that he’s that, that type of connection, like, you don’t, you don’t have that with a random person, you don’t have that type of connection and I feel like that type of those platforms will never help you get those types of connections, they’re never gonna get you, to a point where it’s worth, worth using them.

You mentioned ‘worth’, sorry I’m just gonna ask you a quick one cause you mentioned something earlier about self-worth, you said you start to question yourself or and also you mentioned that you’d like to, when you’re around people you’d like to know that you’re making a positive influence. Can you tell me more about self-worth and also that positive influence?

Okay, well, so, so, self-worth I feel it’s just, just what you see in other people, like, let’s say someone might help in one way or the other, as I said I’m an electrician, I know how to do things that other people don’t so I have self worth for that type of thing, I know I can do this and other people can’t do this, it makes me feel good that I know this and other people don’t know this, type thing. So, and most of my knowledge of that was me sitting at home and just learning on my own, like, I didn’t learn that through social media type, platform, I learned that on my own and then with a tutor on one on one tutor to help me, that showed me how to do stuff. You don’t get that from a big social stand. Self worth I feel is the way you look at yourself and your impact on people type of thing and the less impact you have on people, the less self worth you have. Right now my, my, my nieces going through body functions that I feel I can ease her passage through it, like, I was there when my sister started going through all that type of stuff and now I’m there with my niece 46:46 through that type of stuff. This is weird to talk about but it’s something that happens. She probably feels lonely about it because some of her friends doesn’t, hasn’t gotten through this situation but to educate her, my mom did most of it but to educate her about this type of stuff, just makes me feel bad because it makes me feel like I’m being a good uncle, I’m doing what I’m supposed to be doing, like, not even just something that’s supposed to be normal, because that’s not normal! You don’t sit there and teach a niece, I don’t…

Sorry, you know what, let me ask this, I’m just trying to think about timing as well. I wanted to understand that in relation to loneliness if you don’t mind me asking, so, just going back to what you said about, you know, the text messages you received and you exchanged, cause you mentioned that your when friends didn’t include you and stuff, you started to question yourself, can you tell me about that.

Well, it’s, it’s like, it’s how, if they didn’t think of me when they decided to do something like this, what effect do I have on them when I’m around them type of thing, it’s more a ‘do I affect them enough for it, for me to be on their thoughts when they decide to do something?’ ‘do I make enough impression with these people that are so called friends that are supposed’, or, it’s weird because it kind of gets, it kind of gets really dark and are these really friends? Should I really give a crap about them when they don’t wanna invite me to do these types of things or interact me that type of way? And then obviously, you kinda question whether it’s my fault and whether I did something to affect the reasons why they’re not inviting me to these things or even thinking I’d want to go to these types of things and why would they think I wouldn’t. I understand why they wouldn’t, they think yeah, because I’m as I said, I’d rather not go to these things. Maybe they did think of me and they think ‘he wouldn’t like this, so instead of us asking him and putting him in an awkward situation, let’s not ask him and then maybe it’ll make him feel better that he didn't have to be in a situation where he has to say yes and go to something he didn’t want to do so, so the self worth part of it is whether they’d, whether, basically whether they had me in their thoughts when they decided to do this type of stuff, like, and the fact that they didn’t or they did but they didn’t think I'd enjoy it or didn’t think of me makes me have to feel like I’m not, I’m not that, I don’t have that connection to them that they have with all their other friends or there are things it’s more for me to be this guy’s friends or this female’s friend, I have to be fake which means is the real me what they wanna be around type of thing. If I have to be fake and pretend to enjoy these things, then do they really value what I do enjoy type of thing, do they value my interaction with them, which I don’t think on that separate occasion it was not, it was just drinks with the lads type of thing. When I drink, I get, I get drunk basically, when I drink I get drunk but I remember everything, so. I don’t get mad, I’m not a fighter, I’m not something, I’m more of a lover than a fighter when I get drunk so, so that’s when I question why wouldn’t they want me around type of thing, because even I’m highly intoxicated, still fun to be around, well in my eyes I’m still fun, I remember everything, so they never get angry with me, they never, I’m, but yea, it’s, it’s a weird concept.

Thank you. Is there anything else you want to say about box 1? Can we move on to the second box?

This is a [referring to the drawing] a memory I had, I was coming back from work and there’s a pub that’s not far from where I work and I remembered going and seeing a few friends and then I remembered messaging them and they’re like ‘no, we’re gonna stay in for the night’ type thing and that really did affect my, whether I was lonely or not, because I was like, they just lied to me cause I know I saw them it was, it’s, it’s a weird, it’s a weird feeling to be lied to for something like that, it’s like, they didn’t have to lie, they could have just said, we’re gonna have  few small drinks, nothing big, I mean I probably would have said no, didn’t wanna come, anyways, but the fact that they lied about it really hit hard because it wasn't a nice feeling, of course it wasn’t a nice feeling, that they rather tell me that they, I think one and two [referring to the boxes] kind of go together because in 1 I kinda got a bit pissed that they didn’t ask, and then in 2 they kinda lied and said that nothing happened, basically, so, that I didn’t have to feel bad about it, there’s not a lot to nearly talk about in number 2, it’s just that hurt feeling that you get when you’re lied to for no reason type of thing, it’s more of a, it was just two lads on the inside of the window and me walking past [referring to the drawing], basically, the romford train station is just there and I get off at Romford station cause my commute takes me to London so it’s easier to go that way than to drive because my commute is dead on rush hours so the times would have been better on my way back cause I haven't got a vehicle, I will past most clubs to get to the closest transport back to my house type of thing but yea so I basically happened upon walking past the pub and saw them, there was only two or three of them and then I, I basically questioned them, one of them was like ‘oh we might go out later’ but we’re not doing anything right now’ even though I had already seen them. The feeling I had was probably the most genuine loneliness I felt because it was that weird, it pulled self-worth into question a lot, definitely. Loneliness and self-worth is, it’s gonna hand in hand pretty much throughout the most.

So it sounds like they didn’t include in their gathering sort of gathering.

Yea, exclusion. Yeah.

How did that make you feel? I guess you said you started to question yourself and then…

Yeah. Just, it wasn’t a nice feeling, it was a, that hit a lot harder but I had a lot of stuff to fall back on, I had a lot of stuff to preoccupy me so that I why I feel, that’s why I feel loneliness is something that we make because if you just distract yourself, it’ll go away for a bit and then they’ll come back and then you just keep distracting yourself with other things, it’s something that everyone deals with, it’s like depression, everyone deals with it, everyone has depression, like you probably have depression, it’s not, it’s not a bad thing to have it it’s a good thing to have, it’s a chemical influx in your body that’s telling you something ain't right. You’re supposed to be depressed, you’re supposed to be lonely, it’s something you’re supposed to have, if you didn’t have those types of feelings, you wouldn’t know whether something was bad, you wouldn’t know when, like, sometimes it’s good to welcome those types of things because you know when something is bad and then when you don’t have those feelings you know when something is good type of thing. If you felt, if you felt if you didn’t feel those feelings you wouldn’t feel the good feelings that then you didn’t have those feelings, basically. Do you understand?

Thank you. Um, is there anything else you want to say about box 2?

No it was just, it was just, I really associate loneliness with the, it’s gonna be hard to elaborate because most of the, most loneliness is revolved around the same thing, social activeness, so most of it is going to be the same answer, really, but it’s just different parts of the life and then some time, and once we move on, you’re gonna notice, right, this is back in the past when it wasn’t when I didn’t feel these things, but as we move on you’re gonna notice that they didn’t affect me as much as they used to. In 1, it affected me a bit, in 2 it hit me hard because they lied about it, and then in 3, it was like, I didn’t even wanna be there, and then in 4, I noticed that I’m, it was a feeling, like, in 3 it was like I’m not feeling this, I don’t feel like they’re, they want me here or questioning whether they want me here, as you see here [referring to the picture] they’re doing their own thing and I’m just chilling type of thing.

How did it make you feel in this context, in box 2, when you saw them and they lied to you.

Hurt, really hurt. As I said, depression is a thing you should feel and depression was what I felt there. That was really depressing, like, it was, I like to downplay things as a kind of protection so when I go, ‘it wasn’t that bad’, I didn't go home crying, I’m not, that’s not my mindset, I can’t do that type of things, I wish I had an outlet like that because then I wouldn’t bottle things up, an outlet would be great but I don’t know, it’s just my persona of a big macho man. It kind of doesn’t help when depression comes into play because you’re not supposed to be depressed in the eyes of social, social rights, wrongs. Big men don’t cry, type of thing, so when it comes down to it, even though I liked to say that social norms don’t affect you, they really, there’s no running from it, there’s no hiding from chemistry that’s been wired into your, into your brain since you were a child, so, yeah, so, it was really depressing basically. It was, it was one of the most depressing things I had, I’ve been through a lot, alot, so for me to say being lied, being lied to by friends is probably not the worst thing that could even happen to me in my life but it’s a bad thing, well, basically, at the age of 11 my dad just got up and left. You don’t need to be sorry about it, it happened, I don’t care, I say I don’t care, obviously, there’s abandonment issues that, you’re bound to have, it’s not one of those, it’s not an emotion that you can’t have, type of thing, so obviously when this comes to play, you’re being lied to, it’s kind of almost the same thing feeling that you’re being abandoned type thing and you try and work out sort of, like you try and go into the social norm so you don’t get the feeling of being abandoned, they want to include you into things but it’s bound to happen if you, if you, if it’s not your character, it’s not, you can’t, you can only fake it for so long until it’s not, it’s not you, so, no matter how long you fake it, it’s still fake, basically. So, yeah.

Thank you.

Basically, in number 3, it was basically the same, I just didn’t feel connected to these people enough to feel that they wanted me around type thing, and then number 4…

Sorry before we to number 4, can you tell me, actually, what you drew here?

Okay, so two friends are playing football on the TV, and they’re like fifa, and obviously you can play four players but...I don’t like fifa, it’s the worst game ever, so, so it’s just something I don’t like, so even though my friends like it and you feel like you have to put up that type of, you have to put up with that, just, just having something that you don’t like and they do like, you kind of have to disconnect with people. It’s weird, as I said, I’d rather read a book than be around people, same with that [referring to another box/drawing], I’d rather, I’d rather not enjoying myself fake around friends than actually enjoying myself doing something I like doing, so yeah, that was more of a ‘if I don’t wanna be here, do they want me to be here’ type of question that I, and I ask that, I ask that question a lot, weekly, I ask that question, even though it’s something so generic cause they’re playing a game I don’t like, it’s still it has an effect on you like are they playing this game cause I’m here and they know I don’t like it or and then you start questioning yourself whether you have, like schizophrenia or something because you’re overthinking stuff, like are they playing this game because I don’t like it? So they want me to leave basically is the question I’m throwing at it even though it’s completely absurd, it’s a question that goes through your mind, it’s one of those stupid thoughts that you have that you shouldn’t have. It’s a dumb thought but it’s one of those thoughts that kind of affects your loneliness or your, your being if you like to say. And then number 4…

Before we go, I just wanna ask you a quick question. This [referring to box 3] looks like you know, you have a couple of your friends playing football on the….

Cup.

Yea and then you kind of being the person a bit further out and just asking, do they even want me here?

Well, it’s a thought.

So, did you feel left out here?

Um, it wasn’t more a feeling left out, it was just, it wasn’t mentally sating me if you know what I mean?

Mentally what sorry?

To be sated, to feel well fed, what’s another word for that, like, my mental appetite was not being, understand, it wasn’t challenging me enough for it to be worth, what I felt worth my time, type of thing, which if it’s affecting them and keeping their, I don’t know, it’s like, it’s weird, I’ve always thought I had ADHD because people would sit there and play a game for hours and hours and hours and hours, I probably be able to play a game for 10 minutes and then, it’s boring me, I need to move on, I need to get into something that’s actually challenging me type of thing and, yea, so.

Thank you. Are you okay if we move to box 4?

Yeah, that's fine.

Is there anything else you want to say about box 3?

No. No. Box 4, ah this is a great one. This is where I completely rebelled away from most of my friends. I felt just being in a social area, it felt corrupt in my, in my mind, it just felt wrong, I, just being around people I didn’t know, being around in situations I didn’t feel comfortable in, even if it was around best friends, like, as I said, the guy I knew for 20 years, it just didn’t feel right being around him when I was having to commit to social norms and that type of climatisation/traumatisation (1:08:04) type of thing. It wasn’t right, it didn’t feel right, type thing. I kind of pushed away a lot, which, if you sit there and you’ll say it’s more of a shield you put up, I’d rather not be around people type thing, leave me alone type thing, it’s kind of self-destructive in a way because you’re not really leaving a lot of doors open when you’re pushing people away, there’s not a lot of connections you can make with people after you push everyone away type thing and that’s how what I kinda felt, I kinda felt everything around me is fuzzy, I didn’t feel, I don’t know, you’re a mentalist, am I a sociopath? I don’t know, it’s weird, it’s just one of those…

Did you ask me if I thought you were a sociopath? What do you mean by a sociopath?

Yeahhhh [laughing]. Someone that fakes it just for everyone else’s views, everyone else’s, like, just someone who’d rather lie than voice his own, I think, like…

I can’t say that because I don’t know you. Sorry.

Yeah, I know. But it’s just…

If you were or if you weren’t, it’s still doesn’t…

Yeah. But that, even that questioning of my own sanity is bad because it’s like, I’m questioning my, whether my thoughts are right in situations, like, for example, I got into an argument with quite a lot of my friends, one with, it’s all made up now, we’re real cool but it was over a stupid stuff, they wanted to go do something and I didn’t and then they were like yea but that’s always you, and I was like yea and you’re my friends so I make sacrifices even though sacrifice is a heavy word to use, I make sacrifices for them and being around their social norms so why couldn’t they do the same thing for me type thing, and it kind of really blurry for a couple of months where it was just no contact most of the time, very little contact and it was like people were just calling and texting just to check up, to make sure I was fine, calling a family member to ask about me type of thing and it kinda of got depressing for the fact of they were scared if they came to me and said if I was feeling, if I was feeling fine or stuff like that, that I’d actually push away more than I had already had been type of thing. So, so, it was kind of, cause I don’t ask for help, I’ve never asked for help, if I can’t do it myself there’s no point, that’s why I took up loads of different craftmanships and all that cause I know, if I can’t do it myself then what’s the point type thing, this is what I’m supposed to be doing, I’m supposed to be self-sufficient type of things, so if I can't, if I can’t control my own outcome I don’t want people around to see me unravel kind of thing, it’s just, it’s that weird feeling but it’s not, it’s a fuzzy, blurry feeling that I think a lot of people would tag as loneliness, it’s a weird, I’d rather not be around people even though people is what I need, type of thing, but yeah.

So basically, to see what you’ve drawn, you basically have a group of people, for example, your friends and this is you [referring to the box] and it seems like you’ve kinda of separate yourself from them.

Yea, and I have like a weird…

It’s a like shield around you, huh?

A shape and fuzzy shield, yeah, just to keep myself away basically.

And you wanted to keep yourself away because you felt like you sacrificed for your friends and you felt like they didn’t do the same for you?

Uhum, like, yeah. I, I put on a happy face at a birthday and try and enjoy myself when I didn’t want to be there, this is something I didn’t enjoy. I don’t like being around big groups as I said, I’m a big guy, it doesn’t always plan out, someone tries to pick a fight, someone tries to pick a fight and then it gets out of hand and then it’s always pointed to me or it’s always looked to me to sort it out because I’m might be the most rational or the most physically capable to sort these types of predicaments that basically is the way I always look at it cause I’m always relied upon to be the grown up because I won’t, stupid, the level of some of the, the group members, someone of them are just complete pain, and when I know they’re going on this trip or an out in some (ties ago?) 1:13:00 all the way down to south end if I know there’s these set people going I will not go because it’s a recipe for disaster the second that they invite so it’s a weird, for me to just stay away from people sometimes where I’m not in the right mindset or it’s just easier, safer, yeah.

So sound like, one of the things you mentioned was, you basically, even though you may not enjoy a party or you may not enjoy being with a group of people but you still put on this sort of fake mask that you’re happy and you’re enjoying yourself but in reality you’re not.

Yeah definitely, that’s why I was trying to portray in the picture that even though I’m around so many people, loneliness can still affect you because if you're not in the right mindset it can become tainted. Happiness can become a doubt. An example would be, everyone’s happy, let’s say blowing out candles and you’re just not, it’s a weird, it’s weird to explain, it’s like a, I don’t know, it’s just not a, it’s a bad feeling but yeah. It’s like, it’s weird, it’s kind of a, like, an angry feeling that this is a waste of time, this is all a waste of time, this whole social construct is not my scene so why am I here doing this and then sometimes I need that social construct to get me through patches of loneliness and depression. It’s, it basically goes hand in hand, sometimes you need to just be away from it sometimes you need be ‘right, it’s much pain inside of it’ but most of the time I try and keep myself away, keep myself active in a way from contact cause it’s just easier that way. It’s hard to, it’s hard to act the way I act.

Box 4 was a drawing of being at a bar and basically just having a feeling of numbness where it’s even though I’m there and around friends, I’m not really there, type feeling and basically the main thing is the questioning my need of being there, for example, is me being here worth the time and the effort of being there around people than the whole, I don’t know, just a feeling that you, that, there’s no impact of you being there type thing, if you understand, like, it was all fuzzy, it’s not, it’s not worth for interaction cause as I said before, that there, I’m a bit of an introvert so being around people in that type of situation isn’t something I enjoy cause the whole being in a crowd, it’s hard to read people’s faces because everyone’s hiding behind everyone else’s emotions. for example, when, let’s say when people get into an argument, it’ll usually be the one person and everyone will sit there and mimic and copy out what the other person is doing or reacting the same as the other person because it’s socially normal to do that type of stuff, so basically if I (hurt 02:48) mentality, hurt mentality is when, it’s almost a mask that you can use in social interactions to play, play the following sheep basically instead of, instead of being yourself, you play this character that everyone wants to see just because you can see that they are doing the same thing, basically. Yeah, I don’t like that type of interaction cause you can’t read a face, it’s, they’re playing someone else or playing as another person in a social circle. For example, I like to, if I’m gonna have a friend and talk to a friend, it has to be more of a one on one thing because when it comes to reading people, it’s not easy when it’s  in a group but when it’s one on one it’s easy, all the different, there are different emotions and little things they do that you can easily read.

And, how does that make you feel when you’re in a group setting and you’re not as able to read other people’s emotions.

Pardon, I lost the first bit.

So, it sounds like what you’re saying is you prefer to meet with friends on a one to one basis because sometimes in group settings it’s hard to read people’s emotions.

Yeah. Well, it’s not just sort of one to one, it can be, it can be a multiple people but they just have to have their own, cause a lot of people don’t have the ability to have their own type of mask, not mask but they are, basically, people will act differently in a group than they will with their, people will act differently around people they don’t know than they will with people they do know, so when you get that part of commonality with people then it can be added to a group for something and then you’ll see, cause you notice the changes, you know that that’s a bad, so yeah, basically, when it’s one or two people you can see how people’s emotions are pretty much the same cause if it’s a one on one type thing because they’ve all got different, a different, what's the word, they’ve all got their basically, their face that they like to be but once it becomes a bigger group it usually just goes to whoever is the loudest and whoever is, whoever they would be able to control the crowd, that’s a good one, because obviously everyone wants to be, everyone wants to be with the group so you gotta play the part instead of going your own separate way, doing your own thing, of which I don’t. I don’t really like that because it’s, it’s fake, there’s no truth behind hurt mentality 07:08. So yeah that, that picture was just a, to show that even though you could be around groups of friends, have fun, you still got to be careful because the connections in the social norms that you pick up aren’t  actually proper, they’re just, they’re just hidden 07:45. Basically the groups’ emotions, it’s not, it’s not a single person doing it, it’s what the group is doing, if you understand what I mean. It’s not a, you can't sit there and read an entire group, it’s too much, it’s too hard to read a group, it’s easier to read a single person but when they’re in a group you might not be able to read a group because they’re just showing off, they’re sharing the same emotions over the group with. But, yeah, so. So that, yeah that picture was just because it was 08:30. You become distant with people because they act differently in a group than they would as a one on one thing, yeah. You get really negative feelings, sometimes, if you’re an introvert in those types of group situations because you’re able to see people differently than you would if you are in a one on one situation where you’re just doing your own thing even when it comes down to like a cinema or something like that.  (SOMETHING - 09:17) going out and having some friends at cinema or something like pool or something where you’re in a one to one situation, the feeling that you get are different when you’re in a group because in the one to one you’re able to read them, basically read the emotions and everything but when it’s a group you can’t do that because there’s too many 09:46, the whole hurt mentality, yeah, which I think is a, it’s basically is a something to hide behind, it’s basically a lie to or that you’re being sociable but it’s really not, you’re just playing what people want you to be. I don’t think is right, which is where I get my whole numbness for from because, yeah, yeah. I think that one is explained.

So it sounds like being able to read emotions is important for you.

Yea, it should be important for everyone. To be able to look at someone’s face and to tell what they actually feel is different, yeah you can listen to someone on a phone, you can listen to someone, you’re gonna hear it, you’re gonna hear them talk you maybe to pick up discerning things but you’re never gonna have the facial reactions and the lifting up the eyebrows, the flaring of the nose, those types of things, you’re not gonna be able to see in group situations because there’s just too much to look for but when it’s a one on one you see those different types of effects, the words that you deliver will given them, for example, if I’m giving someone a compliment I’m looking for, see, see facial changes that’s gonna give me a signal whether they are, they’re taking the compliment well or they’re taking it and just not caring about it and you can see that from a smile, a smile can be anything from slight change of the shape of the lips or to a big smile. The differences could so small but if you can’t see them you never know they were there so yeah to read someone is very important in a social construct.

And you mentioned earlier that sometimes in group settings, those who are the loudest tend to kind of take control and this and that, how does that make you feel when you’re in a group setting and those that are the loudest tend to be the dominating ones and so on.

So, it, sometimes it’s good because everyone is, it’s a fun interaction, for example, you go out partying, and you have a few loud people that are happy and wanna dance and bringing everyone else on to the dancefloor, that type of situation is good but then you have the negative types that just wanna get into, for example wanna get into a fight or being toxics in their own little way that would bring down the sovereignty of the group, like the whole, the whole we come here to do this thing and then it gets changed because someone has too much of a personality basically. If someone has, the whole, the whole group, like, I don’t know, young type effect 14:25 if, if there’s too many loud people in the group, it becomes too much, if there’s too much quiet people, of course, it becomes dull and you have to have that right mix and if you don’t have that right mix, it can become a horrible night because it becomes awkward, you end up arguing all the time, that type of situation, so, so to have crowd stirrer that, to have, basically shepherds of the group, people that will steer the group into the right areas it’s good but when you have let’s say, you have the wolves of the crowd that are not, that are only for their own…

The wolves of the what, sorry?

Basically, the wolves in the sheep clothing, the ones that are there to, the ones that are there to be, to be loud and to get into arguments and basically the ones that ruin the night type of thing, if you understand what I mean. You’re always gonna get them, there’s gonna be at least one or two in a group and usually to balance it out with other people but then, the more people in a group that you have the more chances that you have, people are just gonna follow this person, and you don’t want that, you want, you want people to be able to dampen his overactiveness towards negative behaviour which I think is key because you have to have that group connectivity if you can’t have, if you can’t have enough people balancing out the group then it’ll all become crazy like fights happen or it’ll go the other way, it’ll just get too hectic and other groups will get pissed because this group is having too much fun and then the attention gets brought to us, so, so, i don’t know if you understand but it’s like a , you know nightclubs there are multiple groups and you want to stick to your own groups but you also want to have a good time and if your good time is in conflict with another group it’s gonna be, it’s gonna have negative effect for either your group or their group so there’s a lot of balancing that you have to do, i don’t know, that’s me over analyzing but that’s how I’ve always seen it when it comes down to different, it may be gibberish but it’s weird cause that’s how I see it when one of guys, if I go out, do stuff, there always has to be a set amount of party guys to quiet people to neutral people, neutral people are the people that whatever, be fine with just chilling, drinking quietly or partying if it came to that point cause it’ll be the party guys that will wanna pull the neutral people towards them which is fine because then that leads the quiet guys to do their own thing or it’ll be the quiet guys can have the neutral guys come towards them if the party, the party guys aren’t doing their jobs properly basically. So the construct of the group has to be well balanced and if it isn’t, it can affect the entire group. yeah , so. The whole, the whole mentality of loneliness in an even, well in a group, can be affected by een just the small changes to adding a new person that everyone revolves around or taking away a person that you enjoy going out with type of thing, like if you can't have that connectivity with your own group because something’s been added or something’s been taken away, it kind of gets superficial which then just makes you don’t want to be there type of thing, and it’s contaminating the whole group basically, that type of thought process, emotional, disconnect that type of thing. But yeah.

And thank you, and when you said earlier that everyone’s hiding emotions, can you tell me a bit more about that please.

So basically everyone hides behind. I use the analogy of hiding behind a mask but it is pretty much the same thing. Everyone’s hiding behind a mask and you don’t, you don’t go, let’s say you’re going to a birthday party, you’re not gonna go there and act yourself if you don’t think it’s appropriate. For example, if you’re a party hard person and you’re going to a child’s birthday party, you’re gonna act differently to if you were with a big group of people taking (no? 20:44)  that do the same stuff as you type of thing so you act appropriately to the social barriers that are set in front of you so so basically you’re putting up a mask to hide who you are because it’s socially correct to do so, so for example if I’m going to a, just a get together with a bunch of work colleagues, it’s different to going to a night club with a bunch of friends, the whole, the whole , the act that you have to play is different, like, drastically different in comparison one could sit there and be wild, the other one you have to be conservative because these are people that will judge on your day to day business so you can’t be doing what you do at night in front of people that you do day to day stuff with basically. So there’s an almost, I don’t know, it’s weird, you’re basically hiding yourself away from people that you think are gonna have a bad connection to you. Everyone does it, right? To say that people don’t do it is like having the wall over your eyes, you can’t, you’re not seeing, because everyone does, you can’t, it’s weird because I know I do it, if it comes down to it and I know however I act differently, I’ll go out and get drunk or I’ll go out and just drink juice or, or really shots because there are different things you can do with different groups so you can’t do with it every group and one of them is act yourself cause people might not like that side of you and then you get a negative reaction towards that person and if that person was your big enough influence you can get a negative reaction towards the entire social group that you’re in, which no one wants that because that’s, that’s like really bad that you get you discommunicated from them, which isn’t fun. So basically it’s like a, it’s like a mask that everyone wears when they go and do something social because from fear of being either rejected or judged upon the actions that you take. Yeah.

When you say fear of being judged or rejected, can you tell me more about that?

Yes, it’s just a, it’s it’s almost chemical to have that type of ‘want to be in a social group’, like, like for an introvert it’s less but you still need to be in a group. If you get rejected from a group that you worked hard to be in, it kind of puts you in square one, you have to go about doing, basically, yes, it’s great being at home doing your own thing on your own but then everyone has to have a social, a social thing that they do just to keep themselves chemically balanced, you can't just be sitting in your room all day or reading a book, it’s good but you can’t do it everyday for all your life. Maybe some people can but it would be nice if you could do that type of stuff, but no, so the fear of being rejected is it’s, I reckon it’s almost, it should be known like as a chemical reaction that everyone has because no one wants to be rejected, no one at all wants to be rejected especially if you’re working hard towards fitting in and stuff like that and it all goes down the drain because of something you did or how you acted in a way so yeah to be socially rejected or I think is in, like, this just goes back [or let’s just go back] all the way to (something - 26:22) of all time, everyone needs to be in a social circle, it’s how you survive so I think it’s been passed down to want to be accepted into a social construct or make your own social construct.

Is there anything else you want to say about box 4?

Um, just that whoever reads this, they’ll probably understand it but if basically the whole box 4 was for hurt mentality and the whole being disconnected even if you’re in a social circle with people because of the whole unable to read the group as a group because usually the group is controlled by just the one person so, really, you’re just reading the raw emotions of one person in a group because everyone will mimic the same person that the topdog of the group usually is the one that gets mimicked so to read, so if you’re trying to read individuality inside of a group it’s gonna be really hard because they’re mimicking the face of the main guy which is, it’s a shame that no one that, I don’t know, I probably do it when I go out, there’s someone that’s getting pretty lit and someone getting pretty hammered and having a good time, it’s almost that you have to do the same otherwise you’ll be out of, you won’t be with the group you will be on your own basically so yeah, that’s it for that box.

PART 2

Thank you very much, now we move on to the second part.So basically this is about where you feel most socially connected and where you feel most socially lonely in your neighbourhood. Can we start by talking about what you put in box 1 please?

Okay so I wrote down being around friends and being at the movies for the socially connected and for the socially detached…

Sorry, before we move on to the socially detached, can we, can you tell me more about…

Socially connected.

Yes, let’s explore that first and then we go to the most lonely one afterwards.

Yeah, so I feel like everyone likes to do something so whether it’s read a book, watch a movie, go play football, any type of thing that you can do on your own but you can also go do as a group, it’s great in a group situation. For example, going to the movies, I like going to movies because it’s quiet, yes you’re with people but the main aim is to watch a movie and be quiet and do it that way. But then to enjoy it with people that are also trying to do the same thing is great because you all have the same mentality, you all have the same focus, you’re all trying to do the same thing at that one point which simplifies social interaction because there’s no trying to be a different person in the movies, there’s no, there’s no trying to fake your way through it, you’re watching a movie, it’s something you can do on your own as I said, or in a group, because the requirements are minimal, you watch a movie and then if you’re with a group you talk about it, if you’re on your own, you just enjoy it because it’s a movie, everyone likes movies, I love movies, but that type of interaction is easy which I like being around that type of interaction. And the second one was being in a group…

Oh, sorry, no, no, I was just going to ask you, so, you said basically that, just to reflect back, you said that you like going to the movies because you’re there for a purpose and doing it with people who also are in it for the same reason, you know, it’s good in a way for you, it makes you more socially connected.

Yeah, when we all have the same goal, and you know they have the same goal, no one goes to the movies thinking I’m gonna be destructive and I’m gonna do this and that. No, you go to a movies because you know I’m going to it or watch a movie, I’m going to do this. Loads of things can have this type of thing, if you wanna go to a friends house to watch, play football or go to a friend’s house to play Play Station, but then that type of stuff you know you’re going there for that thing, there’s no hidden curtains, there’s gonna be other things maybe after, like, after the movies you go and get ice cream and then you put it into a different type of situation, like, depending on who's there type thing, so yeah, if you’re, if you're with a group, preferably a small group for those type of interactions where it’s movies and there but if you’re with a group that’s let’s say playing football and stuff like, you’re playing a game, you’re pretty much, the whole rules and regulations of those types of interactions are, I like those types of interactions where you’re at a movie, rules are ‘be quiet, don’t ruin it for other people’. You go to football, rules are ‘play football, enjoy it, be sporty like, that type of stuff. Everything has a set of rules and the more the rules can be followed without being broken the better the situations are so, because, I don’t know, maybe I’m a perfectionist but, if I’m going to watch a movie, I’m  going to watch a movie, I’m not going to talk to people in the movie, so, it’s an easier, it’s an easier way to interact with a group without having to interact with a group if you understand? It’s a, it’s a way to be social without actually being social cause obviously introverts hate being social, but, but yeah.

So it sounds like what you’re saying is, you know, when you’re at the movies, it sounds like just having that sense of common purpose can add to you know, making a place, making you feel more socially connected in a way, be it football or be it movies, um, you guys are there for the same reason and so on.

Yeah. Yeah, cause obviously. If you’re going to a night club as a big group, everyone’s got their own thing to do and if I’m going to a night club, I’m here to enjoy myself and have a good time with the people that I come with. But then you also got other people in the group that are there to enjoy themselves, probably pick up a chick or enjoy themselves and basically get into fights. I know people that literally go out to have fights with people, they’re basically (vigilans? - 36:12), so, so the different types of motives in a group that are hard to basically if someone, if you’re in a group and there’s enough people that just wanna go out, it’s fine, you’re kind of stuck in that situation unless you leave which is socially wrong to leave a group when they’re, when they’re about to get in a fight, it makes you look weak, which you can’t do so then you’re obligated to stay with the group and participate, which isn’t, which isn’t a good mindset because that means instead of you enjoying yourself you have an obligation to do this type of stuff, for example, I just came back from a funeral, I hate funerals, it’s not something I like doing, I hate it, it’s not worth, I know it’s for grieving purposes but I don’t like that type of situation you have to be put in, type thing. Yes, it’s around family, so, so the social construct is different but it’s the same type of interactions - you’re reading people, if someone’s acting up, that is enough, people that agreed, they, it becomes their own thing, for example, we had a few children running around and the family is not, this is while they’re talking in the, like standing up and doing all the hymns [song of praise that Christians sing to God] and that type of stuff and the children running around screaming and that’s socially fine for some people, for other people, it’s wrong, so the people that feel this is wrong got up and tried to control the situation but the person that died would have hated that type of control, she is the opposite, she loves when children run around even at her funeral, she used to love children run around and having fun cause it’s not fun to be at funeral, so there’s George having fun, it aligns the situation type of thing so a lot of the other people getting angry at people that wanted to control because the situation was almost good because these children felt that they could have fun running around and doing their own thing at a funeral because it’s that lightening of the mood type thing but obviously I just didn’t wanna be there so, it was pretty negative to me to, that’s not my type of grieving and I can’t grieve in that situation so it kind of felt like, I know it’s bad but it felt like a waste of time in my eyes like the whole day was wasted because that’s not my way of grieving. I mainly did that for the people that ask me to go, that type of situation. But yeah so, it’s that obligation to do something that puts a negative effect onto it because, cause it wasn’t, it wasn’t that I didn’t want to go but it’s just not my grieving process and do that type of thing so when I’m obligated to go do that it puts a negative reaction to it because I didn’t wanna go do that type thing.

Okay, thank you.

So, yeah.

And, how does that make you feel when you’re for example at the movies with like minded friends or when you’re just being with your friends and having things to talk about?

Relieved. In a way, in a way, you don’t have to build yourself up to this, you don’t have to wear this mask that everyone wears, it’s a social thing. You’re around people that you’re like, if you’re around like-minded people then you know you can be open with and enjoy the same thing you do that type of stuff, it’s, it’s quite relieving because you don’t have to, you don’t have to put a facade up for people, type, because, let’s say, I used to like rugby, I used to enjoy it a lot so I’ve got a friend group that are big rugby guys, I fell out of that type of social norm of talking about rugby, it kind of got bored for me cause of injuries and then, I kind of went into a dislike for it because of what the injuries affected me now type thing so, I kind of dislike it, I still watch it and have a connectivity to it but it’s the whole, because I got injury from it I don’t like it anymore. So then when I’m in that group situation and they're all talking about it it’s like it’s boring for me cause I don’t actually care about this type of stuff anymore. I know it’s, I know it’s, what’s the word, I know it’s like being, being, being single minded because if it doesn’t, if it doesn’t keep me in intellectually sated then I don’t wanna be involved in it type thing, I know other people like to talk about it so, just cause I don’t like to talk about it, if they wanna talk about it, you kind have to acknowledge and allow them, and the lack of words - indulgence, indulging in what they wanna do because obviously social, social norm isn’t just about you, it’s about the group so if they’re looking to talk about something you don’t wanna talk about, you either disconnect yourself or you go with it, and if you disconnect yourself,  as I said, that could have a negative effect, which, yeah, so.

Thank you. Um, is there anything else you want to say about box 1?

Box 1?

Or should we move on to box 2?

Okay, one sec, let me, let me have a look at the picture?

I think you said everything.

Which box are we on right now?

So, we’re basically, in task 2, so, it’s the second page. But, I think you’ve said enough, to be honest, we can move on to the place where you feel most lonely, if you just wanna have a look at your notes.

Okay.

Sure.

Okay, I remember writing them down. Basically, my, my, my mindset when I wrote that down was that I’ve had not enough interactions in the upcoming weeks so you, so basically, as I said the whole needing to set a side (something - 44:28) for social interaction so you have a mentality of ‘I need to go out with friends and do something’ and then you, once you’ve done that, you be like, ‘okay, I’ve had enough of this, I wanna go home and a read book or I wanna go watch a movie or watch some Netflix, type thing, I don’t wanna be in this situation anymore type thing, not cause it’s a negative situation just cause you had enough of it type thing but it’s fun until you have too much of it, everything is like that, you can only eat chocolate until you get sick, type thing so when I wrote that down it was the whole thing of being at home because I haven’t had the type of interactions I was in, wanting, wanting [or waiting] for that type of interaction of being around people and things so you’re not gonna have, the views I had when I wrote that down, I just wanna be left alone type thing, I wanna watch Netflix, I wanna read a book, I’m actually, before you called, I was listening to an audio book, so, I’ve had that interaction and I was done with that, it’ll probably be in the next week or two before I need, I need that huger sate again type, if you understand, so, so when I wrote that down I was kind of, it was that loneliness that you feel when you're not in a social, you’ve not had social connectivity but basically being at home, letting your, letting my mind run, it’s never good, never good, I’ll be honest. I overthink things way too much, I really over analyse things and I’ll go back and think about things that I did wrong if at one point of time in a social environment or I’ll think about things that were good that haven’t happened since, so, so it’s always on a playback with me, I’m always looking back at things that were good and were bad and see what I did in that situation to make them good or bad, so, and usually it runs to the bad side or I messed up in that way or I messed up in this way type thing, so it’s, it almost always goes to the negative side so when obviously it’s just a better idea not to go into that type of mindset of thinking about things that I did wrong or things I did right type of thing, because it almost always goes to the thing I did wrong cause everyone thinks about the stuff they did wrong before they, everyone will obsess about the stuff they did wrong even if you did more right than you did wrong you’re still gonna obsess on stuff that you did wrong because I think you’re chemically wired to do so, so you can correct yourself in a way, in one way or another so yeah, just, just being at home, cause as I said it’s not at a 100 percent answer, because yes the answer is being at home but there’s times where being at home is a good thing like you don’t have to be lonely at home type thing, sometimes, but loneliness is, being on your own and being lonely are completely different. You wanna be on your own, sometimes, it’s a good thing because having social interactions should feed the loneliness you have because i don't think loneliness is affected by, well not affected, i don't think loneliness can be sated or fixed by being in a group because sometimes being in a group can affect you in that type of way of feeling lonely. For example, you learn different views and the group, the group won’t help you in your views type thing so you’re basically isolated even though you’re in a group, you’re isolated to your own views, to your own wants, which you can’t really, which, if you’re on your own, yes you’re isolated because you’re on your own that might be loneliness as well but for some, for different people it’ll be different, some people have to be in groups because they’re, they’re chemically bound to that type of situation but then there’s other people, basically introverts and extroverts. Introverts don’t need that type of chemical, they’re not imbalanced in the way other people are imbalanced so its easier, it’s easier for me to be at home reading a book than it would be for someone else to be at home, do you understand? But yeah, so when I wrote that it was kind of, it was kind of in the context of this is arms up, it’s correct at some point in time but it’s also the opposite at some point in time, do you understand by? The answer is never gonna be 100 percent because the status changes whether you want to be in situations with groups or you don’t wanna be in situations. If you don’t want to be in situations, the answer that I gave is wrong but if you do wanna be in a group situation the answer that I gave was right, type thing, so, so, so it doesn’t even, it’s, it’s weird because it kind of puts everything on its edge [or edge or head] because it turns everything upside down because, because your feeling of loneliness can be sated in multiple different ways like, for example, reading a book can take your loneliness away because you’re, you’re working to forget about it in your own different way, like, going on, going on a console to play a game, you’re forgetting about things, those type of negative things than if you’re just sitting here hoping to go out with a group of people, you’re not, you’re feeling that negativity because but when you preoccupy yourself you don’t have that negativity, you don’t  you don’t think about it type thing so yeah it’s basically, yeah, the answer can be different during the times of the (something -  52:16) you have at the effect and the, the outcome of, yeah, I don’t know how to explain that more that I already did.

Sure, no problem, thank you. Just a quick question, going back to what you put in this box [I guess referring to box 2], I wondered, you know, how does that make you feel when you’re at home? Cause you said, the box is basically categorised as the place where you feel most lonely and put in my house. How does that make you feel when you’re at home?

Well, as I said, it’s not, it’s not the situation of at home, it’s the situation of not being in, not being sociable type thing but at home you’re not sociable, you’re on your own or you’re in a situation where it’s just you type thing. The whole being at home, it’s not, it’s not, it is, the whole, the whole feeling negativity at being at home, loneliness, that type of, that type of circles emotions, and, like, it’s on a, it’s on a (cease / these? -  54:31) so it could be good, it can be bad but at some moments it’s bad, for example, just straight up loneliness, being at home, it’s weird, it’s hard to explain, it’s like a, the answer, as I said the answer that I put down was, it’s an ‘and/or’ answer. I’m lonely, I’m lonely, no, it’s an ‘if’ answer, cause I’m lonely at my house if I haven’t had social interactions but I’m lonely at my house, I’m not lonely at my house if I’ve had that social interaction so it’s a question of ‘if’, there’s other stuff that go with that, that can change the outcome of that answer, so, so, being at my house is not a bad thing but it also is a bad thing because if you understand, I don’t know if I’ve lost you but the whole ‘if you had that social interaction that sated your hunger for it, do you know what I mean? Being at your house will be fine because you, basically, the context of that answer was that I haven’t had my social interaction for, let’s say, that month or that week and being at my house had me thinking, I need to go and do something and being stuck inside is not helping type thing so it’s something adding to the loneliness. If you understand? So basically, the answer was as long as I haven’t had my social interactions for that week or for that month, being at my house affects the loneliness because you’re not out doing stuff, you’re not actively working towards being connected with people, which, which could be also the opposite, you could be on the other side because being at your house after you had a social interaction like let’s say, yea, the day before we went out, we had fun, now I don’t need, I don’t need to go out the next day and have fun, I don’t need go out the next day and have fun and do stuff. Being at home is enough at that point. So it’s, it’s, if all the circumstances are met then it could be a good reason to be at home or if all the circumstances haven’t been met then it could be a bad reason for being at home, so, it’s, it’s weird, it’s like a console box type answer, so if it gets at a no answer like, you can’t get a definitive answer because the situation, as long as the situation is different, the outcome will be different type thing. Yeah.

Yeah, thank you. Thank you very much. I think we’ve come to the end of the recording. I’m just going to pause the recording.
